J Intell Robot Syst (2017) 87:141-168
DOI 10.1007/s10846-017-0483-z

 

Survey on Computer Vision for UAVs: Current

Developments and Trends

Christoforos Kanellakis - George Nikolakopoulos

Received: 28 April 2016 / Accepted: 15 January 2017 / Published online: 27 January 2017
© The Author(s) 2017. This article is published with open access at Springerlink.com

Abstract During last decade the scientific research
on Unmanned Aerial Vehicless (UAVs) increased
spectacularly and led to the design of multiple types
of aerial platforms. The major challenge today is
the development of autonomously operating aerial
agents capable of completing missions independently
of human interaction. To this extent, visual sens-
ing techniques have been integrated in the control
pipeline of the UAVs in order to enhance their nav-
igation and guidance skills. The aim of this article
is to present a comprehensive literature review on
vision based applications for UAVs focusing mainly
on current developments and trends. These applica-
tions are sorted in different categories according to
the research topics among various research groups.
More specifically vision based position-attitude con-
trol, pose estimation and mapping, obstacle detection
as well as target tracking are the identified compo-
nents towards autonomous agents. Aerial platforms
could reach greater level of autonomy by integrating
all these technologies onboard. Additionally, through-
out this article the concept of fusion multiple sensors
is highlighted, while an overview on the challenges

 

C. Kanellakis (4) - G. Nikolakopoulos
Lulea University of Technology, Lulea, Sweden
e-mail: christoforos.kanellakis@ Itu.se

G. Nikolakopoulos
e-mail: geonik @ltu.se

addressed and future trends in autonomous agent
development will be also provided.

Keywords UAVs - SLAM - Visual servoing -
Obstacle avoidance - Target tracking

1 Introduction

Unmanned Aerial Vehicles have become a major field
of research in recent years. Nowadays, more and more
UAVs are recruited for civilian applications in terms
of surveillance and infrastructure inspection, thanks
to their mechanical simplicity, which makes them
quite powerful and agile. In general, aerial vehicles
are distinguished for their ability to fly at various
speeds, to stabilize their position, to hover over a tar-
get and to perform manoeuvres in close proximity
to obstacles, while fixed or loitering over a point of
interest, and performing flight indoors or outdoors.
These features make them suitable to replace humans
in operations where human intervention is dangerous,
difficult, expensive or exhaustive.

1.1 Terminology Definitions
This article is reviewing the current State-of-the-Art
on control, perception and guidance for UAVs and

thus initially this section enlists some of the most used
terms in the literature.

® Springer
142

J Intell Robot Syst (2017) 87:141-168

 

Unmanned aerial vehicle -— Aircraft without a
human pilot onboard. Control is provided by an
onboard computer, remote control or combination
of both.

Unmanned aircraft system -— An unmanned air-
craft system is an unmanned aircraft and the equip-
ment necessary for the safe and efficient operation
of that aircraft. An unmanned aircraft is a com-
ponent of a UAS. It is defined by statute as an
aircraft that is operated without the possibility of
direct human intervention from within or on the
aircraft [1]

Micro Aerial Vehicle -— A small sized unmanned
aircraft system running from battery power and
which can be operated and carried by one person.

Collision Avoidance - Sensors on the unmanned
aircraft detect adjacent air users and alert either
an automated on-board system or the remote pilot
of their presence and the potential need to take
avoiding action [2].

Fail-Safe - A design feature that ensures the sys-
tem remains safe in the event of a failure and causes
the system to revert to a state that will not cause a
mishap [3].

Autonomous system —- Operations of a unmanned
aerial system wherein the unmanned aerial system
receives its mission from either the operator who is
off the unmanned aerial system or another system
that the unmanned aerial system interacts with and
accomplishes that mission with or without human-
robot interaction [4].

Autonomy —- A unmanned aerial system’s own abil-
ity of integrated sensing, perceiving, analyzing,
communicating, planning, decision-making, and
acting/executing to achieve its goals as assigned
by its human operator(s) through designed Human-
Robot Interface (HRI) or by another system that
the unmanned aerial system communicates with.
UMS’s Autonomy is characterized into levels from
the perspective of Human Independence (HD, the
inverse of HRI [4].

Environment - The surroundings of a UAV. The
environment can be aerial, ground, or maritime. It
includes generic and natural features, conditions,
or entities such as weather, climate, ocean, terrain,
and vegetation as well as man-made objects such
as buildings, buoys, and vehicles. It can be static
or dynamic, can be further attributed in terms of its
complexity, and can be described as friendly/hostile

% Springer

are those that the UAV and the operator are inter-
ested in or aware of [4].

Sensor Fusion — Information processing that deals
with the acquisition, filtering, correlation, compar-
ison, association, and combination/integration of
data and information from sensors to support UAV
objectives of recognition, tracking, situation assess-
ment, sensor management, system control, identity
estimation, as well as complete and timely assess-
ments of situations and threats and their signifi-
cance in the context of mission operation. The pro-
cesses can involve UAV onboard computing sen-
sors, externally provided sensor information, and
human input. The process is characterized by con-
tinuous refinement of its estimates and assessments,
and by the evaluation of the need for additional
sources, or modification of the process itself, to
achieve improved results [4].

Perception: A UAV’s capability to sense and build
an internal model of the environment within which
it is operating, and to assign entities, events, and
situations perceived in the environment to classes.
The classification (or recognition) process involves
comparing what it observed with the system’s a
priori knowledge [4].

Mission - The highest-level task assigned to a
UAV [4].
Waypoint - An intermediate location through

which a UAV must pass, within a given tolerance,
en route to a given goal location [4].

1.2 UAV Types

This massive interest for UAVs has led to the develop-
ment of various aircraft types in many shapes and sizes
to operate in different tasks [5]. Within the scope of
this article 4 categories of UAVs are referred, namely
single rotor helicopters, multi rotor-crafts, fixed wing
planes and hybrid combinations. Each of these plat-
forms have their own advantages and disadvantages
that let the operator decide which will best fit the
application. The 4 types depicted in Fig. | (singe
rotor: [6], multi-rotor: [7], fixed wing: [8], hybrid: [8])
are presented briefly below.

Single rotor —- This platform has the main rotor for
navigation and a tail rotor for controlling the head-
ing. Mostly they can vertically take-off and land
and do not need airflow over the blades to move
J Intell Robot Syst (2017) 87:141-168

 

Fig. 1 Different types of
Unmanned Aerial Vehicles

forward, but the blades themselves generate the
required airflow. Piloted helicopters are popular in
aviation but their unmanned versions are not so
popular in UAV research community. A single-rotor
helicopter can be operated by a gas motor for even
longer endurance compared multi rotors. The main
advantage is that it can carry heavy payloads (e.g
sensors, manipulators) in either hovering tasks or
long endurance flights in large areas outdoors. The
disadvantages of such platforms are their mechan-
ical complexity, danger from their generally large
rotor, and cost.

Multirotor —- This class of UAVs can be divided
in subclasses depending on the number of rotor
blades. The most common are considered quadro-
tor, hexarotor. Additionally tri-copters or octa-
copters have been developed. Mostly they can verti-
cally take-off and land and do not need airflow over
the blades to move forward, but the blades them-
selves generate the required airflow. Multi rotors
can be operated both indoors and outdoors and are
fast and agile platforms that perform demanding
manouevres. They can also hover or move along
a target in close quarters. The downsides of these
types are the limited payload capacity and flight
time. Additionally, the mechanical and electrical
complexity is generally low with the complex parts
being abstracted away inside the flight controller
and the motors’ electronic speed controllers.

Fixed-wing

  
 

Multi Rotor

 
   

Hybrid fixed wing VTOL

Fixed wing - The basic principle of these UAVs
consist of a rigid wing with specific airfoil that
can fly based on the lift generated by the forward
airspeed (produced by a propeller). The naviga-
tion control is succeeded through specific control
surfaces in the wings knowns as aileron (pitch),
elevator (roll) and rudder (yaw). The simple struc-
ture of such vehicles is the greatest advantage
from the other types. Their aerodynamics assist in
longer flight ranges and loitering as well as high
speed motion. Furthermore, they can carry heav-
ier payloads compared to multi rotors, while the
drawbacks of these platforms are the need for a run-
way to takeoff and landing and the fact that they
need to move constantly preventing hovering tasks.
The landing is also crucial for safe recovery of the
vehicle.

Hybrid - This class is an improved version of fixed
wing aircrafts. Hybrid vehicles have the ability to
hover and vertically takeoff and land. This type is
still under developemnt.

Overall, rotor crafts are more suitable for applica-
tions like infrastructure inspection and maintenance
due to hover capabilities and their agile maneuvering.
On the other hand, fixed wing vehicles fit better in
aerial surveillance and mapping of large areas from
greater heights. Table 1 provides a brief overview of
advantages and disadvantages of aerial vehicles.

® Springer
144

J Intell Robot Syst (2017) 87:141-168

 

 

Table 1 Advantages and
disadvantages of UAV types Advantages

Disadvantages

 

Single-Rotor e« VTOL flight
e Hover flight
e Heavy Payload

e Area coverage
e More dangerous

e Long Endurance & Coverage

Multi-Rotor e« VTOL flight
e Hover flight
e Maneuverability
« Indoors/outdoors

e Area coverage
e Limited payload
e Short flight time

e Small and cluttered areas

e Simple design

Fixed-Wing « Long endurance
e Large coverage
e Fast flight speed
e Heavy Payload

Hybrid e Long endurance
e Large coverage
e VTOL flight

e Launch-Landing specific space
e No hover flight
e Constant forward velocity to fly

e Under developement
e Transistion between hovering and forward flight

 

1.3 UAV Sensing

Some areas where the UAVs can be widely exploited
are Search and Rescue, Survey, Security, Monitoring,
Disaster Management, Crop Management and Com-
munications missions [9, 10]. In the first steps of the
UAV-era, these aircrafts were equipped with extero-
ceptive and proprioceptive sensors in order to estimate
their position and orientation in space. The princi-
pal sensors used were the Global Positioning System
(GPS) for the position and the Inertial Navigation
System (INS), formulated mostly by an three axis
accelerometer and gyroscope. These sensors, how-
ever, have some flaws from their operating principles,
which affect the performance of the system. On one
hand, one of the great drawbacks of the GPS, lies
in the doubtful precision, as it depends on the gen-
eral number of available satellites [11], whereas on
the other hand low cost INS suffer from integra-
tion drift problems due to propagating bias errors.
Small errors in calculated acceleration and angu-
lar velocity are consecutively integrated into linear
and quadratic errors in velocity and position respec-
tively [12]. Therefore, elaborate estimation processes
are essential to guarantee stability of the system.

The aforementioned navigational equipment, ques-
tions the reliability and limit the best possible

% Springer

utilization of an UAV in real life applications. For this
reason, new ways to estimate and track the position
and orientation of the UAV were needed. An ideal-
accurate solution for the calculation of vehicle’s pose
would be the fusion of data from multiple collabora-
tive sensors [12]. Nevertheless, multiple sensors could
be impractical for some types of UAVs like Micro
Aerial Vehicle (MAV)s due to the limited payload or
for some sensors that malfunction in specific envi-
ronments (like GPS in indoor environments). Thus, it
becomes crucial for the utility provided by UAVs to
establish a more generic approach for pose estimation,
being able to be applied on any type of aircraft.
Nowadays, the evolution in embedded systems and
the corresponding miniaturization has brought power-
ful yet low-cost camera modules and Inertial Measure-
ment Unit (IMU)s that could be mounted on UAVs,
extract useful information on board and feed back the
necessary data, fused with measurements from inertial
sensors. Different types of sensors can be employed
depending on the task. Ultrasonic sensors (Fig. 2a)
could be directly integrated in obstacle avoidance
operations, while laser range finders (Fig. 2c) pro-
vide range measurements for obstacle detection and
mapping of 3D environments. Visual stereo (Fig. 2b)
or monocular camera (Fig. 2d) systems are able to
provide depth measurements for obstacle avoidance
J Intell Robot Syst (2017) 87:141-168

 

Fig. 2 Different types of
sensors used for
environment perception

and mapping tasks. Additionally, they can be tightly
coupled with IMUs for visual-inertial ego-motion
estimation and the raw image stream is also required
for infrastructure inspection. Some example modular
vision systems are depicted in Fig. 2 with a) [13],
b) [14], c) [15], d) [16]. In this survey studies that
include camera as primary or secondary sensors are
enlisted. In this manner the UAV will enhance its
environmental perception, while increasing it’s overall
flying and actuating capabilities. The term Computer
Vision, defines the generic research area where the
characteristics of the real 3D world are interpreted
into metric data through the processing of 2D image
planes. The basic applications of Computer Vision
include machine inspection, navigation, 3D model
building and surveillance, as well as interaction with
the environment. The accomplishment of these appli-
cations requires the execution of several algorithms,
which process 2D images and provide 3D informa-
tion. Some of these algorithms perform object recog-
nition, object tracking, pose estimation, ego-motion
estimation, optical flow and scene reconstruction [17].
Consequently, Computer Vision can have a critical
contribution in the development of the UAVs and their
corresponding capabilities.

 

 

(d)

 

1.4 Motivation of this Review

The aim of this article is to provide an overview of the
most important efforts in the field of computer vision
for UAVs, while presenting a rich bibliography in the
field that could support future reading in this emerg-
ing area. An additional goal is to gather a collection
of pioneering studies that could act as a road-map for
this broaden research area, towards autonomous aerial
agents. Since the field of computer vision for UAVs
is very generic, the depicted work will focus only in
surveying the areas of: a) flight control or visual servo-
ing, b) visual localization and mapping, and c) target
tracking and obstacle detection.

It should be highlighted that this article classified
the aforementioned categories following the Naviga-
tion - Guidance - Control scheme. The big picture is to
provide a significant insight for the entire autonomous
system collecting all the pieces together. The concept
of navigation monitors the motion of the UAV from
one place to another processing sensor data. Through
this procedure the UAV can extract essential infor-
mation for it’s state (kinematics and dynamics - state
estimation), build a model of its surroundings (map-
ping and obstacle detection) and even track sequential

® Springer
146

J Intell Robot Syst (2017) 87:141-168

 

objects of interest (target tracking) to enhance the
perception capabilities. Thus, by combining localiza-
tion and perception capabilities, the robotic platforms
are enabled for Guidance tasks. In the Guidance sys-
tem, the platform processes information from percep-
tion and localization parts to decide its next move
according to specified task. In this category trajec-
tory generation and path planning are included for
motion planning, mission-wise decision making or
unknown area exploration. Finally, the realization of
actions derived from Navigation and Guidance tasks is
performed within the Control section. The controller
manipulates the inputs to provide the desired output
enabling actuators for force and torque production to

control the vehicle’s motion. Generally, different con-
trollers have been proposed to fulfill mission enabled
requirements (position, attitude, velocity and accel-
eration control). In the following sections the major
works that employ visual sensors for each defined cat-
egory will be presented, while the Navigation, Guid-
ance and Control [18] overview scheme is provided in
Fig. 3.

The rest of this article is structured as follows. In
Section 2 a complete overview of the most impor-
tant approaches in the field of flight control will be
presented. Furthermore, in Section 3 a survey on Per-
ception (visual Simultaneous Localization and Map-
ping (SLAM), Obstacle detection and target tracking)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
   

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Fig. 3 Typical overview (variations can apply) of an
autonomous aerial system including Sensing, Navigation, Guid-
ance and Control parts. In general, various combinations of
these parts are employed to achieve real-world applications,

% Springer

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SENSING NAVIGATION GUIDANCE
[Camera }— enn >| Perception
Path Planning
5 environment
target tracking Tesoription
Inertial Sensor] Soa ‘sccitsaions Mission Planning
> Estimation ;
saw data Exploration
| Other Sensors ~
visual-inertial navigation
odometry dynamics
(Position, attitude,velocity)] | (velocity, acceleration)
states
image feature parameters (IBVS) reference trajectory
ee J
CONTROL

Attitude

Position

Velocity

Acceleration

 

 

 

depending on the environment, the aerial platform and human
operator needs. In this figure the image feature parameter space
along with partial state estimation for Image Based Visual
Servoing (IBVS) is also highlighted
J Intell Robot Syst (2017) 87:141-168

147

 

Fig. 4 Image Based Visual
Servoing control structure ft

   

and state estimation (visual odometry) for unmanned
aerial platforms will be further analyzed. Moreover,
in Section 4, representative research efforts that com-
bine the aforementioned fields with mission planning
tasks towards visual guidance will be listed. Finally, in
Section 5 the conclusions will provided, extended with
a discussion on specific challenges and future trends.

2 Flight Control

In this section different control schemes and algo-
rithms are described that have been proposed through-
out the years for UAVV position, attitude, velocity con-
trol. Innititally, Visual servoing schemes are described,
followed by vision based UAV motion control.

2.1 Visual Servoing

The main idea of Visual Servoing is to regulate the
pose {Cg,r} (position and orientation) of a robotic
platform relative to a target, using a set of visual fea-
tures { f} extracted from the sensors. Visual features,
in most of the cases, are considered as points but can
also be parametrised in lines or geometrical shapes
such as ellipses. More specifically, image processing
methods are integrated in the control scheme so that
either the 2D features or the 3D pose measurements
along with IMU data {z;,,y } are fed back in the closed
loop system.

Fig. 5 Position Based
Visual Servoing control ce

so
structure é

Aerial System

IBVS s, ?>

 

 

 

Position/Velocity
Control

2 IMU

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Feature Extraction

 

 

In general, Visual Servoing can be divided into
three techniques: a) Image Based Visual Servoing
(IBVS), b) Position Based Visual Servoing (PBVS),
and c) Hybrid Visual Servoing (IBVS + PBVS),
depending on the type of the available information
that the visual system provides to the control law. In
the IBVS method, the 2D image features are used for
the calculation of control values, while in the PBVS
method the 3D pose of a target is utilized [19, 20]. In
Figs. 4 and 5 the basic structure of the IBVS and the
PBVS UAVs control schemes are presented, while the
rest of this Section provides a brief overview of the
contributions in this field.

In [21] an adaptive IBVS scheme to control firstly
the 3D translational motion and secondly the yaw
angle of a quadrotor with a fixed downward looking
camera has been presented. This method is based on
image features, in perspective image space, from an
object without any prior information of its model. The
controller followed a backstepping approach and reg-
ulated the position using error information on roll and
pitch angles. In the same way [11] presented an inno-
vative contribution for controlling the 3D position of
a Vertical Takeoff and Landing Vehicle (VTOL) from
the 2D projective geometry. More specifically, this
research aimed to develop a UAV capable of hovering
over a specified target for inspection tasks, by utilizing
only image data in the control process. The suggested
controller was hybrid and combined the advantages
of PBVS and IBVS techniques, while a significant

Aerial System

PBVS =
..2>
2

 

 

 

Position/Velocity
Control

   

 

Z IMU

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Pose Estimator Feature Extraction

 

 

® Springer
148

J Intell Robot Syst (2017) 87:141-168

 

benefit of this hybrid approach is that it can be also
operational with 3D objects with unknown geome-
tries. In the approach presented in [22], similarly, the
aim was to control the position and orientation of
an aerial platform incorporating image features in the
control loop. Initially, an IBVS control structure has
been implemented to provide smooth vertical motion
and yaw rotation for the UAV observing ground
landmarks from a fixed down-looking camera. For
the horizontal motion control, a novel approach has
been employed by the utilization of a virtual spring.
The proposed controller only considered the camera,
the propeller models and the mass of the UAV as
parameters.

In [23] two different visual servoing approaches
have been proposed for the real time navigation of
a quadrotor across power lines. The first controller
implemented an enhanced with a Linear Quadratic
Servo technique IBVS method, while on the con-
trary, the second controller implemented the Partial
PBVS method, based on the estimation of the relative
to power conductors UAV’s partial pose. A simi-
lar research in [24] presented an IBVS approach for
linear structure tracking during survey missions and
automatic landing. In [25], a VTOL platform based
navigation system, using the IBVS technique has been
presented. The goal of this research was the control
of a VTOL UAV to perform close distance manoeu-
vring and vertical structure inspections in outdoor
environments based on image features such as lines.
Likewise, [26] presented a novel approach for Skid-
to-Turn manoeuvres for a fixed wing UAV, to inspect
locally a linear infrastructure using an IBVS control.
This work provided comparison between Skid-to-Turm
and Bank-to-Tum manoeuvres control performance
for inspection applications. Moreover, in [27] a con-
trol method that was able to stabilize an UAV in
a circular orbit, centered above a ground target, by
using only visual and proprioceptive data through an
IBVS approach has been presented. In this case, the
fixed wing UAV has been equipped with a gimballed
camera. Similarly [28] proposed a visual servoing
control scheme for the stabilization of a quadrotor
UAV. The presented approach integrated a novel visual
error that improved the conditioning of the closed
loop Jacobian matrix in the neighbourhood of the
desired set point. Another novel approach has been
presented in [29], where a control scheme utilized
computer vision for UAV hovering above 2D targets.

% Springer

This method intended to be used for inspection tasks,
where the UAV is tolerant to small change in its ori-
entation so that it keeps the object inside the camera’s
field of view. The proposed controller was able to inte-
grate the homography matrix from the vision system
and also to decouple the translation and orientation
dynamics of the UAV. Some previous and compli-
mentary works in this area have been also presented
in [30-32].

The collaboration of two quadrotors for vision-
based lifting of a specific payload, with unknown posi-
tion has been presented in [33]. In this approach, the
UAVs were equipped with downward-looking cam-
eras and utilized the information from the vision sys-
tem to attach their docking positions on the target. As
before, in this case the IBVS method has been utilized
for the visual information and a corresponding sliding
mode controller has been designed and implemented.

In [34] a UAV that was controlled solely from
visual feedback, using the faces of a cuboid as refer-
ence, has been presented. In this approach, a camera
was tracking the UAV’s motion and rotation in the
3D space and calculated its pose. Moreover, in [35] a
UAV that was able to follow accurately a user-defined
trajectory, by only using visual information and with-
out the need of an IMU or a GPS has been presented.
The proposed approach was able to map the error of
the image features to the error of the UAV’s pose in
the Euclidean space, while in the sequel this error
was integrated into the closed-loop trajectory tracking
feedback controller. This alternative visual servoing
strategy was different from the classical PBVS and
IBVS techniques.

In [36] a control algorithm for the autonomous
landing on a moving platform for a VTOL has been
presented based the utilization of the IBVS tech-
nique. In this case, the platform was tracked from an
image based visual servoing method, which also gen-
erated a velocity reference as an input to an adaptive
sliding controller. This adaptive control was able to
compensate the ground effect during the manoeuvre.
Furthermore [37] also suggested a vision based con-
trolled system for autonomous landing of a small-size
fixed wing UAV. During the landing phase the IBVS
provided to the controller the manoeuvring informa-
tion like the pitch and yaw angles so that the UAV fly
into a visual marker directly, with the marker recogni-
tion to be achieved through colour and moment based
detection methods.
J Intell Robot Syst (2017) 87:141-168

149

 

 

Table 2 Advantages and

disadvantages of UAV types Advantages

Disadvantages

 

IBVS e Processing 2D feature space
e Low computational cost

PBVS e Accurate pose estimation
e Produce smooth trajectories for the camera

e Additional Sensors (IMU)

e Accuracy issues

e Drift errors camera trajectory
e 3D point space

« Known 3D target model

e High computational cost

 

A navigation system based on a stereo, system
together with an IMU and using IBVS, has been pro-
posed for a mini UAV in [38]. In this case the position
and orientation of the UAV were controlled relative to
a known target, with the vision system to be respon-
sible for the translational control and the IMU for the
rotational control. The translation and rotation of the
mini vehicle were decoupled in order to simplify the
overall model and a saturated PD control has been
implemented to simplify the modeling. Finally, in [39]
the combination of a nonlinear controller for a quadro-
tor UAV, with visual servoing has been investigated
in order to generate stable and robust trajectories in
a perturbed environment. This research employed the
three types of visual servoing 2D, 25D and 3D for an
accurate comparison and presented the advantages and
drawbacks respectively.

The aforementioned studies consist of a big part
in the ongoing research regarding Visual Servoing for
UAVs’. A brief overview shows that since the control
scheme of the aerial platforms considers Euclidean
coordinates PBVS, it is able to produce smooth tra-
jectories of the camera. However, it can not control
directly the motion of the features and it may lead the
target outside of the Field of View. On the other hand,
IBVS controls directly the motion of the features in the
image plane, while keeping the target inside the Field
of View and ignoring the Euclidean pose of the plat-
form and producing unpredicted trajectories for the
UAV with high risks for collisions of the target. Thus
IBVS is heavily depending on additional sensors such
as IMUs to improve pose control of the UAV. Regard-
ing computational aspects, IBVS outperforms PBVS
and requires less processing power. The above com-
parison is summarized in Table 2. The major tasks of
IBVS, PBVS and hybrid approaches are enlisted in
Table 3.

2.2 Vision Based Control

In this section research on UAV control using visual
information is described.

In [40] a real time vision system for aerial agent
localization and control has been proposed. The rotor-
craft was equipped with a downward looking cam-
era. An optic flow algorithm fused with IMU in an
Extended Kalman Filter (EKF) was integrated with
the non linear controller to accomplish 3D naviga-
tion. Furthermore, [41] proposed a real-time system
for UAV take off, hovering and landing using ground
landmarks with two concentric circles. In this case the
circles were considered as ellipses and their param-
eters were computed. From the ellipse features, the
conic section theory and the position in the image, the
angle of the camera frame with respect to the world
frame was calculated and then the camera pose was
estimated. Afterwards a LQR-LTR control method
was applied to stabilize the vehicle, considering a set
point and the camera pose known. Moreover, in [42],
an adaptive controller for UAV autonomous tasks,
such as hovering at a specific altitude and trajectory
tracking has been presented. The proposed scheme
was able to perform vehicle localization and 3D ter-
rain mapping for obstacle detection. The IMU mea-
surements were merged with optic flow information

Table 3 Advantages and disadvantages of UAV types

 

Tasks

 

Visual Servoing e Take off and Landing

e Obstacle Avoidance

e Position and Attitude control
e Stabilization over a target

e Collaborative Lifting

 

® Springer
150

J Intell Robot Syst (2017) 87:141-168

 

and estimated the aircraft’s ego-motion and depth map
with unknown scale factor. An adaptive observer con-
verted the scaled data into absolute velocity and real
position from the obstacle and finally the proposed
controller was able to integrate these measurements
for autonomous navigation. In [43] a UAV perception
system for autonomous UAV landing and position esti-
mation has been implemented. The computer vision
algorithm was utilized during the landing process by
sending data to a controller for aligning the UAV with
the pad. On-board the UAV were also mounted a sonar
and an optic flow sensor for altitude, position and
velocity control. In [44] a novel strategy for close
distance to the ground VTOL-UAV manoeuvring like
hovering around, landing and approaching a target has
been described. The framework of the time-to-contact
(tau) theory has been implemented for autonomous
navigation. A monocular camera and an IMU were
employed by the developed control law and integrated
their data through a novel visual parameter estima-
tion filtering system. In [45] a quadrotor helicopter
capable of both autonomous hovering and navigation
in unknown environments and object gripping using
low cost sensors has been presented. The vehicle sta-
bilization was accomplished by a PD controller while
an attitude estimation filter reduced the noise from
the sensor measurements. Navigation was succeeded
by incorporating the position and yaw angle esti-
mations of the visual Simultaneous Localization and
Mapping algorithm into a nonlinear sigmoid based
controller. The aerial gripping was accomplished with
a second infrared camera able to estimate the 3D
location of an object and send the measurements to
a third controller. In [46] a real-time vision system
for UAV automatic landing has been implemented.
The helipad was detected using an image registration
algorithm and the direction of the head of the UAV
was computed with Hough Line Detection and Helen
Formula. The UAV camera images were binary trans-
formed with an adaptive threshold selection method
before they are processed for the landing. Another
approach [47] proposed a vision-based algorithm for
efficient UAV autonomous landing. Firstly CamShift
algorithm was applied to detect the helipad region, fol-
lowed by the SURF algorithm in order to calculate
the position and the velocity of the UAV. Afterwards
the combination of the SURF results and the IMU
data were inserted through a Kalman filter for the
control of the UAV. In [12] a quadrotor vehicle has

% Springer

been developed towards autonomous take off, naviga-
tion and landing. The rotor-craft was equipped with
a stereo camera and IMU sensors.The measurements
of these sensors were merged through a Kalman fil-
ter in order to remove noise and fix the accuracy of
the UAV state estimation. The camera ego-motion was
computed by stereo visual odometry technique.

3 Navigation

In this section major research in the fields of visual
localization and mapping, obstacle detection and tar-
get tracking is presented.

3.1 Visual Localization and Mapping

The scope of localization and mapping for an agent
is the method to localize itself locally, estimate its
state and build a 3D model of its surroundings by
employing among others vision sensors [48]. In Fig. 6,
some visual mapping examples are depicted such as:
a) [49], b) [50], c) [51]. In a) dense 3D reconstruction
from downward looking camera from MAV is demon-
strated, while in b) a complete aerial setup towards
autonomous exploration is presented. The map shown
in Fig. 6 is an occupancy map. The system relies
on a stereo camera and a downward looking camera
for visual inertial odometry and mapping. Similarly,
in c) another approach for autonomous exploration is
described, where the system uses a stereo camera and
an inertial sensor for the pose estimation and map-
ping. The Figure depicts the image raw streams, the
occupancy map and the dense pointcloud. The rest
of this section briefly provides an overview of the
contributions in this field.

Towards this direction in [52], a visual pose esti-
mation system from multiple cameras on-board a
UAV, known as Multi-Camera Parallel Tracking and
Mapping (PTAM) has been presented. This solution
was based on the monocular PTAM and was able
to integrate concepts from the field of multi-camera
ego-motion estimation. Additionally, in this work a
novel extrinsic parameter calibration method for non-
overlapping field of view cameras has been proposed.

The combination of a visual graph-SLAM, with
a multiplicative EKF for GPS-denied navigation, has
been presented in [53]. A RGB-D camera, an IMU
and an altimeter sensor have been mounted on-board
J Intell Robot Syst (2017) 87:141-168

151

 

 

(b)

 

Fig. 6 Different approaches for agent localization inside their surrounding area and simultaneous 3D representation of the area. The
map could be represented in pointcloud form (a,c) or occupancy blocks (b,c) to reduce computation demands

the UAV, while the system consisted of two subsys-
tems, one with major priority for the UAV navigation
and another for the mapping, with the first one being
responsible for tasks like visual odometry, sensor
fusion and vehicle control.

In [54] a semi-direct monocular visual odome-
try algorithm for UAV state estimation has been
described. The proposed approach is divided in two
subsystems regarding motion estimation and mapping.
The first thread implements a novel pose estimation
approach consisting of three parts, image alignment
though minimization of photometric error between
pixels, 2D feature alignment to refine 2D point coor-
dinates and finally minimization of the reprojection
error to refine pose and structure for the camera. In the
second thread a probabilistic depth filter is employed
for each extracted 2D feature to estimate it’s 3D posi-
tion. As a continuation, the authors in [55] proposed
a system for real time 3D reconstruction and land-
ing spot detection. In this work a monocular approach
uses only an onboard smartphone processor for semi
direct visual odometry [54], multi sensor fusion [56]
and a modified version of Regularized Modular Depth

Estimation (REMODE) [57]. The depth maps are
merged to build the elevation map in a robot centric
approach. Afterwards, the map can be used for path
planning tasks. Specifically, experimental trials were
performed to demonstrate autonomous landing detect-
ing a safe flat area in the elevation map. Additionally,
in [49] a system that integrated SVO odometry in
an aerial platform used for trajectory following and
dense 3D mapping have been presented. The pose esti-
mations from visual odometry was fused with IMU
measurements to enhance the state estimation used
by the controllers to stabilize the vehicle and navi-
gate through the path. It should be highlighted that the
biases of the IMU where estimated online. The esti-
mated position and orientation were close to ground
truth values with small deviations.

In [58] the optimization of both the Scaling Fac-
tor and the Membership Function of a Fuzzy Logic
Controller by Cross-Entropy for effective Fail Safe
UAV obstacle avoidance has been presented. This con-
trol method was able to integrate the measurements
from a monocular visual SLAM based strategy, fused
with inertial measurements, while the inertial SLAM

® Springer
152

J Intell Robot Syst (2017) 87:141-168

 

computed the information for the navigation of the
UAV. Furthermore, in [59] a Rao-Blackwell approach
has been described for the SLAM problem of a small
UAV. This work proposed a factorization method to
partition the vehicle model into subspaces and a parti-
cle filter method has been incorporated to SLAM. For
the localization and mapping parts, firstly an EKF has
been applied to the velocity and attitude estimation
by fusing the on board sensors, then a Particle Fil-
ter estimated the position using landmarks and finally
a parallel EKFs were processing the landmarks for
the map. The aircraft was equipped with an IMU, a
barometer and a monocular camera. The UAVs motion
has been estimated by a homography measurement
method and the features were computed by the SIFT
algorithm [60], while some highly distinguishable
features have been considered as landmarks.

In [61] a cooperative laser and visual SLAM
approach for an UAV that depends solely on a laser, a
camera and the inertial sensor has been proposed. The
characteristic of the vision subsystem was the correla-
tion of the detected features with the vehicle state and
the fact that the detected point database was updated in
every loop by an EKF. Prior to the update, the image
features were matched (nearest neighbour [62] and
Mahalanobis threshold [63]) with their corresponding
from the database and the new estimations were pro-
cessed by the filter. The laser subsystem performed
a Monte Carlo pose search, where the vision data
have been merged in order to improve point scan and
matching. The combination of these sensors provided
updates to the vehicle state and the overall proposed
scheme resulted in a robust UAV navigation ability in
GPS denied environments.

Additionally, in [64] a navigation system that incor-
porated a camera, a gimballed laser scanner and an
IMU for the UAV pose estimation and mapping have
been presented. Furthermore, in the same article a
method has been presented for the calibration of the
camera and the laser sensors, while a real time naviga-
tion algorithm based on the EKF SLAM technique for
an octorotor aircraft has been also established.

In [65] a monocular visual SLAM system for an
UAV in GPS denied environments has been presented.
This approach followed an hierarchical structure from
the observations of the camera module. The motion
of the vehicle (attitude and velocity) were calculated
using the homography relation of consecutive frames
from extracted features by the SIFT descriptor. The

% Springer

measurements of the camera have been coupled with
IMU data through an EKF and based on these mea-
surements, the velocity and the attitude of the aircraft
have been estimated. Another EKF has been applied
for the localization problem of the UAV as well as the
mapping of the surrounding environment. An inverse
depth parameterization has been implemented to ini-
tialize the 3D position of the features and the usage of
the Mahalanobis distance and the SIFT descriptor for
feature matching has enhanced the robustness of this
proposed scheme.

In [66] a robust method for accomplishing multi
UAV cooperative SLAM has been presented. In the
presented approach, every UAV in the swarm was
equipped with an IMU and a stereo camera system.
The SLAM algorithm was operated in each UAV and
the information was filtered through an Hoo nonlinear
controller. The system accuracy for both the position
of the vehicle and the map cartography were depend-
ing on feature re-observation, when a UAV observed
features already registered by another UAV.

In [67] a visual SLAM based system for ground
target locking has been proposed, while at the same
time estimating the UAVs position, despite dubious
function of the sensor and the 3D model of the target
was assumed a priori known. The UAV was equipped
with a camera and a GPS sensor on board and the
SLAM technique implemented a probabilistic filter-
ing scheme to extract geometric information from the
image. The GPS data were fused with the geometric
information and the projected points of the 3D model
by the utilization of Kalman and unscented Kalman
filters, in order the system to estimate the vehicles
pose. The visual information from the camera referred
to both the target model and non-target region for the
better accuracy, especially for the case where the GPS
sensor malfunctioned.

In [68] a monocular vision based navigation system
for a VTOL UAV has been proposed, where a modi-
fied Parallel Tracking and Multiple Mapping method
has been utilized for improving the functionality of the
overall system. The proposed algorithm was able to
control the UAV position and simultaneously create a
map. Furthermore, in [69] a particle filter approach for
the SLAM method has been presented, where an IMU
and a camera were mounted on-board the RMAX air-
craft and fused. The particle filter processed the state
of the helicopter and a Kalman filter was responsi-
ble for building the map. The vision data consisted of
J Intell Robot Syst (2017) 87:141-168

153

 

Points of Interest (Pols) or features in the image, by
the utilization of the Harris corner detector [70]. In the
presented approach, a linear Gaussian substructure in
the vehicle dynamics lowered the dimensions of the
particle filter and decreased the overall computational
load. This approach included an extra factorization of
the probability density function, when compared to the
FastSLAM algorithm [71].

Furthermore, in [72] and [73] the implementation
problem of a bearing only SLAM algorithm for high
speed aerial vehicle, combining inertial and visual
data based on EKF has been presented.

In [S50] a vision based UAV system for unknown
environment mapping and exploration using a front-
looking stereo camera and a down-looking optic flow
camera was presented. This approach aimed to per-
form pose estimation, autonomous navigation and
mapping on-board the vehicle.

The Smartcopter, a low cost and low weight UAV
for autonomous GPS denied indoor flights, using
a smart phone for a processing unit was presented
in [74]. This system was capable of mapping, localiza-
tion and navigation in unknown 2D environments with
markers, while a downward looking camera tracked
natural features on the ground and the UAV was
performing SLAM.

Furthermore [75] proposed a vision based SLAM
algorithm for an UAV navigating in riverine environ-
ments. The suggested algorithm integrated the reflec-
tion in the water and developed a reflection matching
approach with a robot-centric mapping strategy. The
UAV was equipped with multiple sensors (INS, for-
ward facing camera and altimeter) for both navigation
and state estimation processes.

In [76], a UAV vision based altitude estimation for
an UAV was presented. The aircraft’s relative altitude
to a known ground target was computed by combin-
ing the given ground target information (length) and
localization methods. This approach was not strictly
considering flat ground targets. In [77] a scene change
detection method was described based on a vision
sensor for creating a sparse topological map. The
map contained features of interest from the environ-
ment (key locations), where the algorithm was able
to detect and describe them. The key locations were
calculated by an optical flow method using a Canny
edge detector [78]. The estimated flow vectors were
filtered and smoothened to maintain valid informa-
tion and afterwards it was decided if the vectors were

new observations in order to have the SIFT descriptor,
based on a bag-of-words approach, to update the map
database.

A novel mosaic-based simultaneous localization
using mosaics as environment representations has
been presented in [79]. In this scheme, successive
captured images combining their homography rela-
tions were used for estimating the motion of the
UAV. Simultaneously, a mosaic of the stochastic rela-
tions between the images was created to correct the
accumulated error and update the estimations. The
application of this novel method results in the creation
of a network of image relations.

In [80] a UAV system for the environment explo-
ration and mapping, by fusing ultrasonic and camera
sensors was developed. In the presented algorithm, the
2D marker planar data, extracted from the image and
the depth measurements, from the ultrasonic sensor,
were merged and computed the UAVs position, while
other ultrasonic sensors were detecting the obstacles.
In the sequel, this information was further processed
in order to build a map of the surrounding area. In the
presented evaluation scenario, it was assumed that the
quadrotor was able to move vertically up and down,
without rotating around its axis. Finally, in [81] a low
cost quadrotor being capable of visual navigation in
unstructured environments by using off board process-
ing has been developed. The main components of this
work has been a SLAM system, an EKF and a PID
controller. This research approach proposed a novel
closed-form maximum likelihood estimator to remove
the measurement noise and recover the absolute scale
of the visual map.

In [82] a real time visual - inertial navigation strat-
egy and control of a UAV have been proposed. It has
also been presented a novel feature database manage-
ment algorithm for updating the feature list utilizing
a confidence index. The vision algorithm employed
Harris corner detector for feature localization and
then through the feature correspondence method the
database was being updated. An EKF integrated the
camera, IMU and sonar measures and estimates the
vehicles state.

In [83] a flight control scheme is developed
for autonomous navigation. Pose estimation (PTAM)
from visual sensor is fused with IMU data to retrieve
full state of the platform. A non-linear controller reg-
ulates position and attitude of the UAV in a innerloop-
outerloop structure. A modified SLAM (VSLAM)

® Springer
154

J Intell Robot Syst (2017) 87:141-168

 

algorithm is implemented to assist in trajectory track-
ing for the controller. In [84] a multi camera system for
visual odometry is demonstrated. The sensors used are
the ultra wide angle fisheye cameras. This work high-
lights the advantages of this setup against traditional
pose estimators. In [85] a monocular visual inertial
odometry algorithm has been presented. This work
uses pixel intensity errors of image patches, known
as direct approach, instead of traditional point feature
detection. The identified features are parametrized
by bearing vector and distance parameter. An EKF
is designed for state estimation, where the intensity
errors are used in the update step. In this approach
a full robocentric representation for full filter state
estimation is followed. Many experimental trials with
micro aerial vehicles have been performed to demon-
strate the peroformance of the algorithm. Similarly
in [86], a visual inertial integrated system onboard a
UAV for state estimation and control for agile motion
has been developed. The odometry algorithm fuses
data from high frame rate monocular estimator, a
stereo camera system and a IMU. Experimental results
are provided using a nonlinear trajectory tracking con-
troller. In [87] a full system for visual inertial state
estimation has been developed. This work proposed
novel outlier rejection and monocular pose estima-
tion guaranteeing simple computational cost, suitable
for online applications.Similarly, in [88] the combina-
tion of visual and inertial sensors for state estimation
has been demonstrated. The core algorithm for sensor
fusion is an Unscented Kalman Filter acting on the Lie
group SE(3). The authors extended the applicability of
the UKF state unscertainty and modelling to cases like
Lie group that do not belong to Euclidean space.

In [89] collaborative vision for localization of
MAVs and mapping using IMU and RGBD sensors
have been proposed. A monocular visual odometry
algorithm is used for localization tasks. The depth
data are processed to solve the scaling issue from
the monocular odometry. Information from multiple
agents is transmitted to ground station, where in case
of sufficient overlaps between agent views the maps
are merged in global coordinate frame. The developed
approach provides both sparse and dense mapping.
In a similar manner, in [90] a fleet of aerial vehi-
cles has been employed to form a collaborative stereo
camera for localization tasks. The sensors used in the
proposed scheme are a monocular camera, an IMU
and a sonar for each agent. Sensor measurements are

% Springer

fused in an EKF for state estimation. Finally, a forma-
tion control is developed to maximize the overlapping
field of view of the vehicles. This work presented
experimental evaluation.

Visual Simultaneous Localization and Mapping for
UAVs is still facing various challenges towards a
global and efficient solution for large scale and long
term operations. The fast dynamics of the UAVs pose
new challenges that should be addressed in order to
reach stable autonomous flights. Some of the encoun-
tered challenges are shown in Table 4:

3.2 Obstacle Detection

Obstacle detection and avoidance capabilities of UAVs
are essential towards autonomous navigation. This
capability is of paramount importance in classical
mobile robots, however, this is transformed into a huge
necessity in the special case of autonomous aerial
vehicles in order to implement algorithms that gener-
ate collision free paths, while significantly increasing
the UAV’s autonomy, especially in missions where
there is no line of sight. Figure 7 presents visualized
obstacle free paths a) [50],b) [91] c) [92], d) [93]. In
this figure different obstacle detection and avoidance
approaches are presented, where a), b) and c) depict
identified obstacles in 3D and d) in 2D. Additionally,
b) and d) demonstrate the trajectory followed to avoid
objects.

In [93] a novel stereo vision-based obstacle avoid-
ance technique for MAV tasks was introduced. Two
stereo camera systems and an IMU were mounted
on the quadrotor. Initially the stereo rigs were tightly
hardware synchronized and were designed to build a
3D global obstacle map of the environment, using 3D
virtual scans derived from processed range data. The
second part of this approach consisted of a dynamic

Table 4 Vision based localization and mapping challenges

 

Challenges

 

Visual localization and
mapping

e Dependence on illumination
conditions

e High processing time for dense
mapping

e Occlusion handling

e Sensitive to fast movements

e Dynamic environments

 
J Intell Robot Syst (2017) 87:141-168

155

 

 

Fig. 7 Various examples for UAV sense and avoid scenarios either in 3D or in 2D. They are applied either indoors or outdoors in

corridor-like environments or in open spaces with specific obstacles

path planning algorithm called Anytime Dynamic A*,
which recomputed in every step a suboptimal path to
the UAVs goal point. This path planner utilized the
data form the obstacle map and was able to re-plan the
current path.

In [94] a monocular based feature estimation algo-
rithm for terrain mapping was presented, which per-
formed obstacle avoidance for UAVs. The proposed
method utilized an EKF to estimate the location of
image features in the environment, with the major
advantage to be the fast depth convergence of esti-
mated feature points, which was succeeded by the
utilization of inverse depth parameterization. In the
presented approach, the converged points have been
stored in an altitude map, which has been also used for
performing the obstacle avoidance operation.

In [95] a monocular visual odometry algorithm,
enhanced by a laser sensor was presented. The algo-
rithm utilized a template matching approach based
on grey correlation to detect laser spots and a gray

centroid method to estimate the center of the spot.
Afterwards, the distance from the spot has been com-
puted, using geometry with the assistance of a laser
sensor. Furthermore, in [96] a vision based obsta-
cle avoidance approach using an optical flow method
based on Lucas-Kanade gradient has been proposed,
with the general aim to extract image depth. Apart
from obstacle localization, this work has also pre-
sented an algorithm for the estimation of the obsta-
cles’ shape. Similarly, in [97] a novel monocular
motion estimation approach and scene reconstruction
has been presented. The motion and depth informa-
tion were recovered by the utilization of a robust
optical flow measurement and point correspondence
algorithm from successive images. This approach sug-
gested also a visual steering strategy for obstacle
avoidance. The proposed scheme utilized the UAV
motion information and the 3D scene points for
the collision free navigation, while the steering was
based on the concept that the vehicle will adjust its

® Springer
156

J Intell Robot Syst (2017) 87:141-168

 

direction to the furthest obstacle and will not recon-
struct the geometry of the whole environment like
SLAM techniques.

In [98], a monocular method for obstacle detec-
tion in 3D space by an UAV was proposed. This
strategy made the vehicle capable of generating the
3D model of the obstacle from a 2D image analysis.
The general motivation behind this research was that
the aircraft, at the moment that detected the obsta-
cle, would start following a circular path around it. In
every iteration the measured points and the estimated
points from the database were processed by the Z-test
correspondence algorithm, in order to find their cor-
respondences. In the sequel, the new measurements
replaced the previous estimations and so the database
was updated.

In [99], the necessity for real-time depth calcula-
tion for a UAV for detecting and avoiding obstacles
using monocular vision was highlighted. This pro-
posal provided a method to obtain 3D information,
combining Multi-scale-Oriented Patches (MOPS) and
Scale-Invariant Feature Transform (SIFT). In [100]
and in [101] a mission scenario was presented, where
an UAV was capable of firstly exploring an unknown
local area and afterwards, performing a visual target
search and tracking, while avoiding obstacles from
its own constructed maps. This particular task was
accomplished by fusing measurements from vision
and laser sensors.

In [102] the precision of a UAV’s classical navi-
gation system GPS and INS was enhanced with the
utilization of a camera, in order to navigate and detect
obstacles in the environment. A Kalman filter was uti-
lized to estimate the error in the navigation system
between the GPS received information and the cam-
eras’ measurement. Meanwhile, the epipolar geometry
was applied to the moving camera for the reconstruc-
tion of the environment, while this information has
been utilized for obstacle detection and avoidance.

The VISual Threat Awareness (VISTA) system,
for passive stereo image based obstacle detection,
for UAVs was presented in [103]. The system uti-
lized a block matching for the stereo approach, in
combinations with an image segmentation algorithm
based on graph cut for collision detection. In [104],
a controller to plan a collision free path, when navi-
gating through environment with obstacles, have been
presented. The proposed controller had a two-layer
architecture where in the upper layer, a neural network

% Springer

provided the shortest distance paths, whereas in the
bottom layer, a Model Predictive Controller obtained
dynamically feasible trajectories, while overall the
obstacles have been assumed to be cuboids.

In [105], a bio inspired visual sensor was presented
for obstacle avoidance and altitude control. The devel-
oped insect influenced sensor was based on optic flow
analysis. This approach proposed a novel specific mir-
ror shaped surface that scaled down the speed of image
motion and removed the perspective distortion. In this
approach, the mirror simplified the optic flow com-
putation and also provided a 3D representation of
the environment. In [106], a technique that combined
optic flow and stereo vision methods, in order to navi-
gate a UAV through urban canyons was presented. The
optic flow part of this technique was accomplished
from a pair of sideways cameras that kept in track
the vehicle, while the stereo vision information was
obtained from a forward facing stereo pair and was
used to avoid obstacles.

In [107] a visual fuzzy servoing system for obstacle
avoidance in UAVs was presented by the utilization
of a front looking camera. The control process was
performed based on an off-board computational plat-
form and the result has been transmitted to the vehicle
to correct its route. The obstacle avoidance concept
was able to firstly track the obstacles and then try
to keep it to the right or to the left of the image of
the vehicle, until a specific yaw angle was reached.
In the presented approach and for the coloured obsta-
cle avoidance, the CamShift algorithm [108] has been
utilized.

In [109], both the hardware and software frame-
work for a Hummingbird quadrotor being able to
hover and avoid obstacles autonomously using visual
information was presented. The visual information
was processed successively for the navigation of the
UAV where firstly the Shi-Tomasi descriptor [110] has
been applied to find features of interest in the image.
In the sequel, the Lucas-Kanade optical flow algo-
rithm [111] maintained the features located in con-
secutive frames and integrated these measurements on
a EKF for the ego-motion estimation of the camera
and calculated the pose of the vehicle. Furthermore,
in this article a fast environmental mapping algo-
rithm based on least square pseudo-intersection has
been also presented. Finally, this research presented
a fast and effective novel heuristic algorithm for col-
lision free navigation of the UAV, while in [112]
J Intell Robot Syst (2017) 87:141-168

157

 

an intuitive collision avoidance controller, combining
spherical imaging, properties of conical spirals and
visual predictive control has been proposed, being able
to control the navigation of the UAV around the object
and along a conical spiral trajectory.

3.3 Aerial Target Tracking

In this section object tracking approaches for UAVs’
are highlighted. In short, object tracking can be
divided into object detection and object following
strategies using image sequences. The visual sensor is
used to estimate the relative position and translational
velocity between the UAV and the object. Moreover,
the visual information along with data from other sen-
sors is used as an input to the designed controller of the
UAV, in order to track the target. The interest for this
area is augmenting as this technology can be used for
airborne surveillance, search and rescue missions or
even navigation tasks. In Fig. 8 three target following
examples are depicted as it follows: a) [113], b) [114],
c) [115]. In this Figure downward looking cameras
onboard aerial vehicle are used for target detection
and tracking. This approach is applicable in surveil-
lance tasks, rescue missions and general monitoring
operations. The target is highlighted distinctively in
each frame. The rest of this section briefly provides an
overview of the contributions in this field.

Fig. 8 Various aerial target
tracking approaches using
downward looking cameras.
In each case the object of
interest is highlighted
distinctively

In [116] a low cost UAV for land-mine detection
has been developed. The vision algorithm performed
noise filtering using morphological operators and fea-
ture extraction with a template matching method. The
classification process decided whether the detected
target was object of interest or not.

In [117] a fast GPU basedb circular marker detec-
tion process used for UAVs picking ground objects,
in “real time”, has been suggested. The Randomized
Hough Transform (RHT) was used to detect circles in
an image frame with low computation time, where the
RHT was executed in the GPU aiming for increased
detection speed.

In [113] an emergency Inertial-Vision navigation
system dealing with GPS-denied environments has
been proposed. Whenever a UAV was losing its GPS
signal during the flight the designed navigation system
performed real-time visual target tracking and relative
navigation. In this manner, a fixed wing unmanned
aerial vehicle was able to hover over a ground land-
mark with unknown position. The object tracking task
was fulfilled by a kernel based mean-shift algorithm.
Thereafter, the visual data were merged with the mea-
sured data from the inertial sensor through an EKF
for the UAV state estimation. This approach took into
account the delay that the image processing intro-
duced to the visual measurements for the navigation
controller.

 

® Springer
158

J Intell Robot Syst (2017) 87:141-168

 

Moreover, in [118] a quadrotor visual tracking sys-
tem has been suggested. The computer vision part
implemented a pattern recognition algorithm for the
estimation of the position and the orientation of the
target and was sending this information to the quadro-
tor controller. In the same way [119] presented a mini
UAV that was capable to localize and robustly fol-
low a target utilizing visual information. The proposed
method implemented a multi part tracker consisting of
the visual system and the UAV control law. A color
based algorithm detected the object which was then
tracked through particle filtering. In the sequel, the
controller used the estimation of the relative 2D posi-
tion and orientation between the UAV and the target
from the visual tracker. Regarding the control of the
UAV translation a hierarchical scheme with PI and
P controllers have been employed, while for the yaw
angle a P controller has been designed. Similarly [120]
combined visual attention model and EKF for efficient
ground object detection and tracking. In this research,
three visual saliency maps, the local, the global and
the rarity saliency map, were computed. These three
matrices created the intensity feature map which con-
tained the detected object. The visual measurements
were used by the Kalman filter to estimate the objects
state. In [121] a UAV visual ground target tracking
which can be used in GPS-denied environments has
been proposed. This system combined the camera and
IMU on-board sensors for the image processing tasks
and the navigation control of the UAV. Shortly the
visual target tracker detected the 2D position of an
object in an image and afterwards an optical flow vec-
tor was calculated. Finally an EKF has been designed
to estimate the position and velocity for both the target
and the UAV. The onera ressac helicopter was used as
testbed.

Towards aerial surveillance, [122] suggested a con-
ceptual framework for dynamic detection of moving
targets (human, vehicles) from a monocular, mov-
ing UAV. This method combined frame difference
with segmentation algorithms into aerial images. Cor-
respondingly, [123] presented an approach utilizing
optical and thermal cameras. Various separate cas-
caded Haar classifiers were applied to the optical
image, for the vehicle detection part. The detections
that match for every classifier were merged to form
the correct estimation. When the vehicle was detected
in the optical image, the thermal image tried also to
detect the vehicle and verify the result geometrically.

% Springer

Regarding the people detection part, the thermal
image was processed with various cascaded Haar clas-
sifiers whilst simultaneously contours were extracted
from the optical image. In addition, in [124] a mov-
ing target tracking control method for a UAV has been
proposed. It has been based on active vision concept
where the image sensor altered its location and orien-
tation in order to obtain visual information from the
object via a servo control scheme. For this purpose
two controllers for the UAV flight task have been sug-
gested, either a H2/Hoo robust controller or a PID/Hoo
controller. Apart from the flight controller another
PID controller performed the tracking task, which was
based on disturbance observer so that it compensated
the introduced disturbance from the UAV movements.
Another research, [125], presented a novel movement
detection algorithm for UAV surveillance, based on
dense optical flow. Additoinally, this research devel-
oped a new method for rejecting outliers in matching
process where the movement was determined by local
adaptive threshold strategy.

In [126] an object tracking system for UAV
mounted with a catadioptric and moving Pan Tilt
Zoom camera has been proposed where the adaptive
background subtraction algorithm has been used to
detect the moving object. In this case, a novel method
utilized data from both cameras and estimated the
position of the UAV relative to the target.

In [114] the development of a low cost and light
weight vision processing platform on-board a low-
altitude UAV for real-time object identification and
tracking has been suggested. The aerial image was
converted to HSV color space, then, using various
threshold values for the different colors the image
became binary. Afterwards, an edge detection algorithm
was used and finally some geometrical operations and
filters were applied to enhance the result. The object’s
position was calculated through convolution.

In [127] the concept for boundary extraction of land
fields has been presented. This contribution imple-
mented two separate methods for UAV following
elongated objects. The first hybrid method combined
line detection and color texture algorithms was pro-
cessed by a ground control station. The latter consisted
of a window color based segmentation method which
was able to detect land fields in various lightning
conditions in real time.

In [128] a novel grid based non linear Bayesian
method for target visual tracking from a UAV has been
J Intell Robot Syst (2017) 87:141-168

159

 

proposed, where the particular approach developed a
target motion model used for target movement predic-
tion. Therefore samples containing candidates for the
predicted position of the object were generated, then,
a radial edge detection algorithm was used for all the
available samples to detect edge points around them.
Afterwards the weights of each sample were computed
by the feature information. The system performed well
even in cluttered environments and occlusions.

In [129] a vision based system for street detection
by a low-altitude flying UAV has been presented. The
street identification was processed by a Bayes clas-
sifier to differentiate between street and background
pixels. The street classifier updated its parameters
from a recursive Bayesian process. When the street
was identified an edge detection algorithm computed
every object inside it and estimated a color profile.
This profile was incorporated to the classifier in order
to improve the parameters for street detection.

In [130] an object tracking and following method
for a UAV has been presented. The two basic com-
ponents of this approach are an object tracker for
the vision part and an Image Based Visual Servoing
controller for the target following part.

In [131] a visual neuro-fuzzy motion control
scheme for a non-linear tracking task and gimbal
movement has been designed. The camera’s pan and
tilt motions were controlled by a neuro-fuzzy sys-
tem based on Radial Basis Function Network. The
controller estimated the velocity and position com-
mands that were needed in order to actuate the gimbal
(pan and tilt motion), using measurements from object
detection algorithm. In this manner the moving object
was always centered in the image frame. It has also
been presented a learning algorithm using gradient
descent method to train the network.

In [132] UAV object tracking based on feature
detection and tracking algorithms has been imple-
mented. The proposed method has been intended for
real-time UAV control. SIFT algorithm, projective
transformation and RANSAC algorithm have been
used for the object detection and tracking. The result
of the visual system was used as reference to flight
controller for the UAV navigation. The COLIBRI
UAV platform was used is this research. A real time
vision system for autonomous cargo transfer between
two platforms by a UAV has been developed in [133].
The vision system consisted of a camera and was
mounted on a pan-tilt mechanism to be parallel with

ground. In addition it implemented ellipse detection,
ellipse tracking (based on CAMShift) and single-
circle-based position estimation algorithms. The latter
was used to estimate the relative position of a detected
circle from its projection on image plane.

In [134] the coordinated vision based target track-
ing from a fleet of fixed wing UAVs has been exam-
ined. The main contribution of this work consists of
the formulation of control algorithms that coordinate
the motion of multiple agents for surveillance tasks. In
this case, the heading angular rate is used as an input
to the control scheme, while the motion is regulated
by varying the ground speed of each vehicle. In [135]
a landing system for a aerial platform based on vision
has been suggested. The landing spot visualizes a
target with specific shape. The onboard visual sen-
sor performs edge detection using line segmentation,
feature point mapping and clustering. Afterwards, fil-
tering is applied to recognize the landing spot target.
The relative pose of the vehicle with the detected
target is estimated using Kalman Filtering. Finally,
the acquired data are used for the position-attitude
controller of the aerial platform to perform landing.
In [136] a visual algorithm for long term object fol-
lowing has been proposed. This work is divided in
three parts, the Global Matching and Local Track-
ing, the Local Geometric Filter (LGF), and the Local
outlier factor (LOF). GMLT uses FAST feature detection
for global matching and LK optical flow for local feature
tracking. LGF and LOF are implemented to remove
outliers from global and local feature correspondences
and provide a reliable detection of the object.

4 Guidance

This section presents a collection studies towards
autonomous exploration for UAVs’ combining meth-
ods mentioned in previous sections. Elaborate control
laws employed to adjust the position and attitude
of the vehicle combining information from com-
puter vision, image processing, path planning or other
research fields. This topic is broad and contains
many strategies that approach the problem from var-
ious aspects. Coordinating sensors with controllers
on UAVs’ can be used as a basis for other sophisti-
cated applications and determine their performance.
The rest of this section provides a brief overview of
the contributions in this field.

® Springer
160

J Intell Robot Syst (2017) 87:141-168

 

In [86] the authors introduced a coupled state esti-
mator for a quadrotor using solely cameras and an
IMU. The architecture of the proposed system used
methods from stereo and monocular vision for pose
estimation and scale recovery, whereas this informa-
tion is afterwards fused in an Unscented Kalman filter
with IMU measurements. The processed estimated
states are then distributed for trajectory planning, UAV
control and mapping.

In [92] a sophisticated testbed to examine vision
based navigation in indoor and outdoor cluttered envi-
ronments has been developed. The vehicle is equipped
with stereo camera, an IMU, two processors and an
FPGA board. Moreover, the cameras use stereo odom-
etry for ego-motion estimation, which is fused in
an EKF with IMU measurements for mapping and
localization purposes. It has been also developed an
obstacle-free path planning routine so that the UAV
is able to move between waypoints in the map. Sim-
ilarly, in [137] an unmanned aircraft system towards
autonomous navigation based on laser and stereo
vision odometry has been developed. The vehicle was
designed to operate in search and rescue missions in
unknown indoor or outdoor environments. The system
components consisted of three sections, the percep-
tion, the action and the cognition layer. During the
perception part the visual and laser measurements
were merged with the IMU data for the UAVs state
estimation. This layer also performed object detection
task. The action layer consisted of the flight con-
troller which utilized the estimated pose of the vehicle.
Lastly, during the cognition phase path planning for
the autonomous navigation were employed. Addition-
ally, in [138] SIFT feature descriptor passed data to the
homography algorithm for motion estimation. Then,
the measurements were fused with inertial information
by an EKF. It has been also described a delay based
measurement update method to pass the homography
data to the Kalman filter without any state augmen-
tation. Another similar approach [139] also proposed
a vision-aided inertial navigation system for small
UAV based on homography. The data from the IMU,
the camera, the magnetometer and the altimeter were
fused through an EKF using a novel approach and then
were utilized by the UAV control for hovering and
navigation.

In [140] a complete solution towards UAV
autonomous navigation with flight endurance has been

% Springer

presented. Moreover this vehicle was able to take-off
and land either on the ground or on a designed charg-
ing platform. These tasks were performed by com-
puter vision landing and navigation algorithms and
UAV control scheme, using a camera and an ultrasonic
sensor. The landing algorithm implemented Ellipses
tracking while in the navigation algorithm optical flow
algorithm was utilized. In [141] a road following sys-
tem for a monocular UAV has been proposed. The
vehicle was equipped with a camera, an IMU and an
ultrasonic scanner. Moreover, it was able to measure
its position, orientation in relation to the road that had
to follow without any prior information. This method
implemented algorithms to deal with situations where
the target road was occluded, switching to inertial sen-
sors for position data. It has also been developed a
switching controller to stabilize the lateral position of
the vehicle for both the detected and occluded road
cases. In [142] a robust vision terrain referenced nav-
igation method for UAV position estimation has been
proposed, combining visual odometry by homogra-
phy with point-mass filter based navigation algorithm.
The data used in the process were obtained from a
monocular camera, a radio altimeter and a terrain ref-
erenced elevation map. In the same track in [143] a
technique for UAV pose estimation through template
based registration has been suggested, using a set of
georeference images. The UAV captured image was
processed using a similarity function, with a reference
template. This approach utilized Mutual Information
for similarity function.

In [144] a combination of a stereo system with a
IMU for UAV power line inspection tasks has been
suggested. The aircraft navigated in close proxim-
ity to the target during the inspection. This proposal
performed UAV pose estimation and environment
mapping, by merging visual odometry with inertial
navigation through an EKF. In [145] a vision system
for UAV autonomous navigation using as reference
the distance between the vehicle and a wall has been
developed, utilizing a laser and camera perception
system. The sensors extracted 3D data and provided
them to control law for the autonomous navigation.
This approach offered the novelty of alternative sensor
usage and combination in order to trespass the payload
limitations of the mini scale UAV. In [146] an on-board
vision FPGA-based module has been designed with
potential application for real time UAV hovering. The
J Intell Robot Syst (2017) 87:141-168

161

 

sensor implemented various image processing algo-
rithms like Harris detector, template matching image
correction and an EKF to extract all the required
information for the stabilization control. It has been
specifically destined for mini unmanned aircrafts with
limited resources, size and payload. Similarly in [147]
a system for UAV stabilization over a planar ground
target has been presented. This approach tackled the
problem of time delay when data are fused in Kalman
filter from different sensors. In [148] the receding
EKF horizon planning algorithm for UAV navigation
in cluttered environments has been suggested. In this
approach, the data from the camera and the IMU were
processed by an Unscented Kalman filter, while the
estimated states from the filter were integrated to the
receding horizon control and the flight controller. This
research combines the horizon planning with SLAM
for navigation and obstacle avoidance.

In [149] a path planning algorithm for autonomous
exploration in bounded unknown environments has
been presented. The core of this work is based on a
receding horizon scheme. The views are sampled as
nodes at random tree and according to the amount of
unmapped space the next best viewpoint is selected.
Additionally, visual sensors are employed to provide
information on the explored area. This algorithm is
experimentally evaluated on a hexacopter. In [150] a
complete aerial platform setup has been developed for
river mapping. The proposed work employs a stereo
camera and a laser scanner for the mapping, obstacle
detection and state estimation. Two exploration algo-
rithms have been tested, a follow the river in stable
flight modification of Sparse Tangential Network, and
secondly maximize the river length that is covered dur-
ing mission with experimental evaluations. In [151]
coverage algorithm for ground areas from fixed wing
UAVs has been proposed. The novelty of this work
stands in the consideration of practical problems in the
coverage mission. More specifically, the size of the
UAV deployed team is a function of the size and shape
of the area as well as the flight time of the platform.
The developed algorithm consists of two parts, mod-
elling the area coordinates in a graph in a way that a
single agent covers the area in a minimum time and
secondly an optimization step is performed to define
the routes for the team of aerial platforms for the cov-
erage. In [152] an aerial platform with localization,
mapping and path planning capabilities in 3D has been

developed. This approach is based on vision and IMU
sensors. Visual inertial odometry is performed for
local consistency of the platform movement according
to defined task on high level from the operator. Sparse
pose graph optimization and re-localization of land-
marks are implemented to correct the drift in odometry
estimates. The optimized poses are combined with
stereo vision data to build a global occupancy map
that is used also for the global planner to calculate
3D dynamic paths based on the detected obstacles.
The experimental trials were performed in unknown
environments with solely onboard processing.

5 Discussion
5.1 Challenges

This article provided an overview of the advances in
vision based navigation, perception and control for
unmanned aerial systems, where the major contribu-
tions in each category were enlisted. It is obvious
that integrating visual sensors in the UAV ecosys-
tem is a research field that attracts huge resources,
but still lacks of solid experimental evaluation. For
various reasons aerial vehicles can be considered as
a challenging testbed for computer vision applica-
tions compared to conventional robots. The dimen-
sions of the aircraft’s state is usually larger from
the ones of a mobile robot, while the image pro-
cessing algorithms have to provide visual information
robustly in real time and should be able to compen-
sate for difficulties like rough changes in the image
sequence and 3D information changes in visual ser-
voing applications. Despite the fact that the computer
vision society has developed elaborate SLAM algo-
rithms for visual applications, the majority of them,
cannot be utilized for UAV’s directly due to limita-
tions posed by their architecture and their processing
power. More specifically aircrafts have a maximum
limit in generating thrust in order to remain airborne,
which restricts the available payload for sensing and
computing power. The fast dynamics of aerial plat-
forms demand minimum delays and noise compen-
sation in state computations in order to avoid insta-
bilities. Furthermore, it should be noted that unlike
the case of ground vehicles, UAVs cannot just stop
operating when there is great uncertainty in the state

® Springer
162

J Intell Robot Syst (2017) 87:141-168

 

estimation, a fact that could generate incoherent con-
trol commands to the aerial vehicle and make it
unstable. In case that the computational power is not
enough to update the velocity and attitude in time
or there is a hardware-mechanical failure, the UAV
could have unpredictable behaviour, increase/decrease
speed, oscillate and eventually crash. Computer vision
algorithms should be able to respond very quickly to
scene changes (dynamic scenery), a consequence from
UAVs native ability to operate in various altitudes and
orientations, which results in sudden appearance and
disappearance of obstacles and targets. An important
assumption that the majority of the presented con-
tributions consider, is the fact that the vehicles fly
in low speeds in order to compensate the fast scene
alterations. In other words, dynamic scenery poses a
significant problem to overcome. Another challenge in
SLAM frameworks that should be taken into account
is the fact that comparing to ground vehicles, aerial
platforms cover large areas, meaning that they build
huge maps that contain more information. Object
tracking methods should be robust against occlusions,
image noise, vehicle disturbances and illumination
variations while pursuing the target. As long as the
target remains inside the field of view but it is either
occluded from another object or is not clearly visible
from the sensor, is crucial for the tracker to keep oper-
ating, to estimate the target’s trajectory, recover the
process and function in harmony with the UAV con-
trollers. Therefore the need for further, highly sophis-
ticated and robust control schemes exists, to optimally
close the loop using visual information.

Nowadays, the integration of computer vision
applications on UAVs has past it’s infancy and without
any doubt there have been made huge steps towards
understanding and approaching autonomous aircrafts.
The subject of UAVs’ control is a well studied field,
since various position, attitude, and rate controllers
have been already proposed, while currently there is a
significantly large focus of the research community on
this topic. Thus, it is important to establish a reliable
link between vision algorithms and control theory to
reach greater levels of autonomy. The research work
presented in this review, indicates that some techniques
are experimentally proved but many of visual servoing,
SLAM and object tracking strategies for autonomous
UAVs are not yet fully integrated in their navigation
controllers, since the presented approaches either work
under some assumptions in simple experimental tests

% Springer

and system simplifications or remain in the simula-
tion stage. In addition, their performance is constantly
evaluated and improved so more and more approaches
are introduced. Therefore, seminal engineering work
is essential to take the current state of the art a step
further and evaluate their performance in actual flight
tests. Another finding from this survey is the fact that
most experimental trials, reported in the presented lit-
erature, were performed on unmanned vehicles with
an increased payload for sensory systems and onboard
processing units. Nonetheless, it is clear that current
research is focused on miniature aerial vehicles that
can operate indoors, outdoors and target infrastructure
inspection and maintenance using their agile maneu-
vering capabilities. Finally, it should be highlighted
that it was not feasible to perform adequate com-
parison on the presented algorithms due to the lack
of proper benchmarking tools and metrics for nav-
igation and guidance topics [18]. Many approaches
are application driven and their characteristics and
needs differ. Therefore a common basis should be
established within research community.

5.2 Camera Sensors

This review article is focused on research work
towards vision based autonomous aerial vehicles.
Therefore an important factor that should be consid-
ered is the visual system used in individual papers.
Throughout the review process 3 visual sensor types
have mainly been distinguished. A BlueFox monoc-
ular camera from Matrix Vision, the VI sensor stereo
camera from Skybotix and Asus Xtion Pro a RGB-
D sensor. The aforementioned sensors cover a great
range of applications depending on the individual
requirements. Regarding the utilized hardware, this
survey will not provide more information, since in the
most of the referenced articles, the results are being
discussed in relation to the hardware utilized.

5.3 Future Trends

UAVs possess some powerful characteristics, which
in the near future potentially could turn them into
the pioneering elements in many applications. Char-
acteristics like the versatile movement, combined with
special features, like the lightweight chassis and the
onboard sensors could open a world of possibilities
and these are the reasons why UAVs have gained
J Intell Robot Syst (2017) 87:141-168

163

 

so much attention in research. Nowadays, the scien-
tific community is focused in finding more efficient
schemes for using visual servoing techniques, develop
SLAM algorithms for online - accurate localization
and detailed dense 3D reconstruction, propose novel
path planning methods for obstacle free navigation
and integrate aerial trackers, for real scenario indoors
and outdoors applications. Moreover, nowadays many
resources are distributed in visual-inertial state estima-
tion to combine advantages from both research areas.
The evolution of processing power on board aerial
agents will open new horizons in the field and define
reliable visual-inertial state estimation as the standard
procedure and the basic element of every agent. Addi-
tionally, elaborate schemes for online mapping will be
studied and refined for dynamic environments. More-
over, there is ongoing research on equipping UAVs
with robotic arms/tools in order to extend their capa-
bilities in aerial manipulation for various tasks like
maintenance. The upcoming trends will examine float-
ing base manipulators towards task completion in
either single or collaborative manner. Operating an
aerial vehicle with a manipulator is not a straight-
forward process and many challenges exist, like the
compensation for the varying Center Of Gravity and
the external disturbances from the interaction, capa-
bilities that are posing demanding vision based tasks
and that are expected to revolutionize the current uti-
lization of UAVs. Finally, there is also great interest
in cooperative operation of multiple aerial platforms
and mostly for distributed solutions were the agents
act individually exchanging information among them
to fulfill specific constraints. Aerial robotic swarms
is the future for many applications such as inspec-
tion, search and rescue missions as well as farming,
transportation and mining processes.

List of Acronyms

UAV Unmanned Aerial Vehicles
EKF Extended Kalman Filter
GPS_ Global Positioning System
INS _ Inertial Navigation System
IMU Inertial Measurement Unit
IBVS Image Based Visual Servoing
PBVS Position Based Visual Servoing
VTOL Vertical Takeoff and Landing Vehicle
SLAM Simultaneous Localization and Mapping

PTAM Parallel Tracking and Mapping
MAV Micro Aerial Vehicle

Acknowledgments This work has received funding from the
European Unions Horizon 2020 Research and Innovation Prog-
ramme under the Grant Agreement No.644128, AEROWORKS.

Open Access This article is distributed under the terms of the
Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License (http://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/), which permits unre-
stricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium,
provided you give appropriate credit to the original author(s)
and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons license,
and indicate if changes were made.

References

1. U.S Department of Transportation: Federal Aviation
Administration. https://www.faa.gov/uas/faqs/

2. U.K Ministry of Defence: Unmanned Aircraft Systems:
Terminology, Definitions and Classification

3. U.S. Department of Defense: Standard practice for system
safety. MIL-STD-882D (2000)

4. Huang, H.-M.: Autonomy levels for unmanned systems
(ALFUS) framework, volume I: Terminology, Version 2.0
(2008)

5. Valavanis, K.P.: Advances in Unmanned Aerial Vehicles:
State of the Art and the Road to Autonomy, vol. 33.
Springer Science & Business Media (2008)

6. YAMAHA: RMAX. http://rmax.yamaha-motor.com.au/
features/

7. Ascending Technologies: AscTec NEO. http://www.
asctec.de/en/uav- uas- drones-rpas-roav/asctec-firefly/

8. ShadowAir: Super Bat Shadow Air. http://www.shadowair.
com

9. Association Unmanned Aerial Vehicle Systems: Civil
and Commercial UAS Applications. https://www.uavs.
org/commercial

10. Mejias, L., Correa, J.F., Mondragén, L, Campoy, P.: Col-
ibri: A vision-guided uav for surveillance and visual
inspection (2007)

11. Araar, O., Aouf, N.: A new hybrid approach for the
visual servoing of vtol uavs from unknown geometries.
In: IEEE 22nd Mediterranean Conference of Control and
Automation (MED), pp. 1425-1432. IEEE (2014)

12. Carrillo, L-_R.G., Lépez, A.E.D., Lozano, R., Pégard, C.:
Combining stereo vision and inertial navigation system for
a quad-rotor uav. J. Intelli. Robot. Syst. 65(1-4), 373-387
(2012)

13. Max Botix: XL-MaxSonar-EZ4 Ultrasonic Sensor. http://
www.maxbotix.com

14. SkyBotix AG: VI sensor. http://www.skybotix.com/

15. TeraRanger: TeraRanger Rotating Lidar. http:/Awww.
teraranger.com/products/teraranger-lidar/

16. Matrix Vision: mvBlueFOX3 Camera. https://www.matrix-
vision.com/USB3-vision-camera-mvbluefox3.html

17. Szeliski, R.: Computer Vision: Algorithms and Applica-
tions. Springer Science & Business Media (2010)

® Springer
164

J Intell Robot Syst (2017) 87:141-168

 

=

8

20.

21

22.

23.

24.

25.

26.

27.

28.

29.

30.

31.

32.

33.

34.

. Kendoul, F.: Survey of advances in guidance, naviga-
tion, and control of unmanned rotorcraft systems. J. Field
Robot. 29(2), 315-378 (2012)

. Hutchinson, S., Hager, G.D., Corke, PL: A tutorial on

visual servo control. IEEE Trans. Robot. Autom. 12(5),

651-670 (1996)

Corke, P.: Robotics, Vision and Control: Fundamental

Algorithms in MATLAB, vol. 73. Springer Science &

Business Media (2011)

. Asl, H.J., Oriolo, G., Bolandi, H.: An adaptive scheme

for image-based visual servoing of an underactuated uav.

IEEE Trans. Robot. Autom. 29(1) (2014)

Ozawa, R., Chaumette, F: Dynamic visual servoing with

image moments for a quadrotor using a virtual spring

approach. In: IEEE International Conference on Robotics

and Automation (ICRA), pp. 5670-5676. IEEE (2011)

Araar, O., Aouf, N.: Visual servoing of a quadrotor uav

for autonomous power lines inspection. In: 22nd Mediter-

ranean Conference of Control and Automation (MED), pp.

1418-1424. IEEE (2014)

Azinheira, J.R., Rives, P.: Image-based visual servoing for

vanishing features and ground lines tracking: Application

to a uav automatic landing. Int. J. Optomechatron. 2(3),

275-295 (2008)

Sa, L., Hrabar, S., Corke, P.: Inspection of pole-like struc-

tures using a vision-controlled vtol uav and shared auton-

omy. In: IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent

Robots and Systems (IROS), pp. 4819-4826. IEEE (2014)

Mills, S.J., Ford, J.J., Mejias, L.: Vision based control

for fixed wing uavs inspecting locally linear infrastruc-

ture using skid-to-turn maneuvers. J. Intell. Robot. Syst.

61(1-4), 29-42 (2011)

Peliti, P, Rosa, L., Oriolo, G., Vendittelli, M.: Vision-

based loitering over a target for a fixed-wing uav. In:

Proceedings of the 10th International IFAC Symposium

on Robot Control (2012)

Guenard, N., Hamel, T., Mahony, R.: A practical visual

servo control for an unmanned aerial vehicle. IEEE Trans.

Robot. 24(2), 331-340 (2008)

Metni, N., Hamel, T.: A uav for bridge inspection: Visual

servoing control law with orientation limits. Autom. Con-

struct. 17(1), 3-10 (2007)

Hamel, T., Mahony, R.: Image based visual servo control

for a class of aerial robotic systems. Automatica 43(11),

1975-1983 (2007)

Chriette, A.: An analysis of the zero-dynamics for visual

servo control of a ducted fan uav. In: [EEE International

Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pp.

2515-2520. IEEE (2006)

Le Bras, F., Mahony, R., Hamel, T., Binetti, P: Adaptive

filtering and image based visual servo control of a ducted

fan flying robot. In: 45th IEEE Conference on Decision

and Control, pp. 1751-1757. TEEE (2006)

Kim, S., Choi, S., Lee, H., Kim, H.J.: Vision-based col-

laborative lifting using quadrotor uavs. In: 14th Interna-

tional Conference on Control, Automation and Systems

(ICCAS), pp. 1169-1174. IEEE (2014)

Barajas, M., Davalos-Viveros, J.P., Garcia-Lumbreras, S.,

Gordillo, J.L.: Visual servoing of uav using cuboid model

with simultaneous tracking of multiple planar faces. In:

% Springer

35.

36.

37.

38.

39.

40.

Al.

42.

43.

44,

45.

46.

47.

48.

49.

IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots
and Systems (ROS), pp. 596-601. IEEE (2013)

Fahimi, F., Thakur, K.: An alternative closed-loop vision-
based control approach for unmanned aircraft systems
with application to a quadrotor. In: International Con-
ference on Unmanned Aircraft Systems (ICUAS), pp.
353-358. IEEE (2013)

Lee, D., Ryan, T., Kim, H.J.: Autonomous landing of a
vtol uav on a moving platform using image-based visual
servoing. In: IEEE International Conference on Robotics
and Automation (ICRA), pp. 971-976. TEEE (2012)

Huh, S., Shim, D.H.: A vision-based automatic landing
method for fixed-wing uavs. J. Intell. Robot. Syst. 5701—
4), 217-231 (2010)

Salazar, S., Romero, H., Gomez, J., Lozano, R.: Real-
time stereo visual servoing control of an uav having
eight-rotors. In: 6th International Conference on Electrical
Engineering, Computing Science and Automatic Control
(CCE), pp. 1-11. IEEE (2009)

Dib, A., Zaidi, N., Siguerdidjane, H.: Robust control and
visual servoing of an uav. In: 17th IFAC World Congress
2008, pp. CD-ROM (2008)

Kendoul, F., Fantoni, L., Nonami, K.: Optic flow-based
vision system for autonomous 3d localization and con-
trol of small aerial vehicles. Robot. Autonom. Syst. 57(6),
591-602 (2009)

Eberli, D., Scaramuzza, D., Weiss, S., Siegwart, R.: Vision
based position control for mavs using one single circular
landmark. J. Intell. Robot. Syst. 611-4), 495-512 (2011)
Kendoul, F., Fantoni, ., Lozano, R.: Adaptive vision-
based controller for small rotorcraft uavs control and guid-
ance. In: Proceedings of the 17th IFAC world congress,
pp. 6-11 (2008)

Lange, S., Sunderhauf, N., Protzel, P.: A vision based
onboard approach for landing and position control of an
autonomous multirotor uav in gps-denied environments.
In: International Conference on Advanced Robotics, 2009.
ICAR 2009, pp. 1-6. IEEE (2009)

Alkowatly, M.T., Becerra, V.M., Holderbaum, W.: Bioin-
spired autonomous visual vertical control of a quadrotor
unmanned aerial vehicle. J. Guid. Control Dyn., 1-14
(2014)

Ghadiok, V., Goldin, J., Ren, W.: On the design and devel-
opment of attitude stabilization, vision-based navigation,
and aerial gripping for a low-cost quadrotor. Autonom.
Robots 33(1—2), 41-68 (2012)

Fucen, Z., Haiqing, S., Hong, W.: The object recogni-
tion and adaptive threshold selection in the vision system
for landing an unmanned aerial vehicle. In: International
Conference on Information and Automation (ICIA), pp.
117-122. TEEE (2009)

Zhao, Y., Pei, H.: An improved vision-based algorithm
for unmanned aerial vehicles autonomous landing. Phys.
Proced. 33, 935-941 (2012)

Artieda, J., Sebastian, J.M., Campoy, P., Correa, LF,
Mondragén, LF., Martinez, C., Olivares, M.: Visual 3-d
slam from uavs. J. Intell. Robot. Syst. 55(4-5), 299-321
(2009)

Faessler, M., Fontana, F, Forster, C., Mueggler, E.,
Pizzoli, M., Scaramuzza, D.: Autonomous, vision-based
J Intell Robot Syst (2017) 87:141-168

165

 

50.

51.

52.

53.

54.

55.

56.

57.

58.

59.

60.

61.

62.

63.

64.

flight and live dense 3d mapping with a quadrotor micro
aerial vehicle. J. Field Robot. (2015)

Fraundorfer, F, Heng, L., Honegger, D., Lee, G.H.,
Meier, L., Tanskanen, P., Pollefeys, M.: Vision-based
autonomous mapping and exploration using a quadrotor
mav. In: IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent
Robots and Systems (IROS), pp. 4557-4564. IEEE (2012)
Schmid, K., Lutz, P., Tomi¢, T., Mair, E., Hirschmiiller,
H.: Autonomous vision-based micro air vehicle for indoor
and outdoor navigation. J. Field Robot. 31(4), 537-570
(2014)

Harmat, A., Trentini, M., Sharf, I.: Multi-camera tracking
and mapping for unmanned aerial vehicles in unstructured
environments. J. Intell. Robot. Syst., 1-27 (2014)
Leishman, R.C., McLain, T.W., Beard, R.W.: Relative
navigation approach for vision-based aerial gps-denied
navigation. J. Intell. Robot. Syst. 741-2), 97-111 (2014)
Forster, C., Pizzoli, M., Scaramuzza, D.: Svo: Fast semi-
direct monocular visual odometry. In: 2014 IEEE Interna-
tional Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA),
pp. 15-22. TEEE (2014)

Forster, C., Faessler, M., Fontana, F., Werlberger, M.,
Scaramuzza, D.: Continuous on-board monocular-vision-
based elevation mapping applied to autonomous landing
of micro aerial vehicles. In: 2015 IEEE International
Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pp.
111-118. TEEE (2015)

Lynen, S., Achtelik, M.W., Weiss, S., Chli, M., Siegwart,
R.: A robust and modular multi-sensor fusion approach
applied to mav navigation. In: 2013 IEEE/RSJ Interna-
tional Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems, pp.
3923-3929. TEEE (2013)

Pizzoli, M., Forster, C., Scaramuzza, D.: Remode: Prob-
abilistic, monocular dense reconstruction in real time.
In: 2014 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and
Automation (ICRA), pp. 2609-2616. IEEE (2014)

Fu, C., Olivares-Mendez, M.A., Suarez-Fernandez, R.,
Campoy, P.: Monocular visual-inertial slam-based colli-
sion avoidance strategy for fail-safe uav using fuzzy logic
controllers. J. Intell. Robot. Syst. 73(1-4), 513-533 (2014)
Wang, T., Wang, C., Liang, J., Zhang, Y.: Rao-
blackwellized visual slam for small uavs with vehicle
model partition. Indus. Robot: Int. J. 41(3), 266-274
(2014)

Lowe, D.G.: Distinctive image features from scale-
invariant keypoints. Int. J. Comput. Vis. 60(2), 91-110
(2004)

Magree, D., Johnson, E.N.: Combined laser and. vision-
aided inertial navigation for an indoor unmanned aerial
vehicle. In: American Control Conference (ACC), pp.
1900-1905. IEEE (2014)

Cover, T., Hart, P.: Nearest neighbor pattern classification.
IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory 13(1), 21-27 (1967)
Mahalanobis, P.C.: On the generalised distance in statis-
tics 2(1), 49-55 (1936)

Huh, S., Shim, D.H., Kim, J.: Integrated navigation system
using camera and gimbaled laser scanner for indoor and
outdoor autonomous flight of uavs. In: IEEE/RSJ Inter-
national Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems
(ROS), pp. 3158-3163. IEEE (2013)

65.

67.

70.

71.

72.

73.

74.

75.

76.

77.

78.

79.

Wang, C.L., Wang, T.M., Liang, J.H., Zhang, Y.C., Zhou,
Y.: Bearing-only visual slam for small unmanned aerial
vehicles in gps-denied environments. Int. J. Autom. Com-
put. 10(5), 387-396 (2013)

. Nemra, A., Aouf, N.: Robust cooperative uav visual slam.

In: TEEE 9th International Conference on Cybernetic
Intelligent Systems (CIS), pp. 1-6. IEEE (2010)

Min, J., Jeong, Y., Kweon, LS.: Robust visual lock-on
and simultaneous localization for an unmanned aerial
vehicle. In: IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intel-
ligent Robots and Systems ([ROS), pp. 93-100. [EEE
(2010)

. Jama, M., Schinstock, D.: Parallel tracking and mapping

for controlling vtol airframe. J. Control Sci. Eng. 2011, 26
(2011)

. Tornqvist, D., Schon, T.B., Karlsson, R., Gustafsson, F.:

Particle filter slam with high dimensional vehicle model.
J. Intell. Robot. Syst 55(4—5), 249-266 (2009)

Harris, C., Stephens, M.: A combined corner and edge
detector. In: Alvey vision conference, vol. 15, p. 50.
Manchester (1988)

Montemerlo, M., Thrun, S., Koller, D., Wegbreit, B., et al.:
Fastslam: A factored solution to the simultaneous localiza-
tion and mapping problem. In: AAAI/TAAT, pp. 593-598
(2002)

Bryson, M., Sukkarieh, S.: Building a robust implementa-
tion of bearing-only inertial slam for a uav. J. Field Robot.
24(1-2), 113-143 (2007)

Kim, J., Sukkarieh, S.: Real-time implementation of air-
borne inertial-slam. Robot. Autonom. Syst. 55(1), 62-71
(2007)

Liming Luke Chen, D.R.M., Dr Matthias Steinbauer, P.,
Mossel, A., Leichtfried, M., Kaltenriner, C., Kaufmann,
H.: Smartcopter: Enabling autonomous flight in indoor
environments with a smartphone as on-board processing
unit. Int. J. Pervas. Comput. Commun. 10(1), 92-114
(2014)

Yang, J., Dani, A., Chung, $.J., Hutchinson, S.: Inertial-
aided vision-based localization and mapping in a river-
ine environment with reflection measurements. In: AIAA
Guidance, Navigation, and Control Conference. Boston
(2013)

Zhang, R., Liu, H.H.: Vision-based relative altitude esti-
mation of small unmanned aerial vehicles in target local-
ization. In: American Control Conference (ACC), 2011,
pp. 4622-4627. IEEE (2011)

Nourani-Vatani, N., Pradalier, C.: Scene change detection
for vision-based topological mapping and localization. In:
IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots
and Systems (IROS), pp. 3792-3797. [EEE (2010)
Canny, J.: A computational approach to edge detection.
Trans. Pattern Anal. Mach. Intell. 6, 679-698 (1986)
Caballero, F., Merino, L., Ferruz, J., Ollero, <A.:
Unmanned aerial vehicle localization based on monocu-
lar vision and online mosaicking. J. Intell. Robot. Syst.
55(4-5), 323-343 (2009)

. Lee, S.J., Kim, J.H.: Development of a quadrocoptor

robot with vision and ultrasonic sensors for distance sens-
ing and mapping. In: Robot Intelligence Technology and
Applications 2012, pp. 477-484. Springer (2013)

® Springer
166

J Intell Robot Syst (2017) 87:141-168

 

81

82.

83.

84.

85.

86.

87.

88.

89.

90.

91.

92.

93.

94.

95.

. Engel, J., Sturm, J., Cremers, D.: Scale-aware naviga-
tion of a low-cost quadrocopter with a monocular camera.
Robot. Autonom. Syst. 62(11), 1646-1656 (2014)
Chowdhary, G., Johnson, E.N., Magree, D., Wu, A.,
Shein, A.: Gps-denied indoor and outdoor monocular
vision aided navigation and control of unmanned aircraft.
J. Field Robot. 30(3), 415-438 (2013)

Zhang, X., Xian, B., Zhao, B., Zhang, Y.: Autonomous
flight control of a nano quadrotor helicopter in a gps-
denied environment using on-board vision. IEEE Trans.
Ind. Electron. 62(10), 6392-6403 (2015)

Harmat, A., Trentini, M., Sharf, I.: Multi-camera tracking
and mapping for unmanned aerial vehicles in unstruc-
tured environments. J. Intell. Robot. Syst. 78(2), 291-317
(2015)

Bloesch, M., Omari, S., Hutter, M., Siegwart, R.: Robust
visual inertial odometry using a direct ekf-based approach.
In: IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent
Robots and Systems (IROS), 2015, pp. 298-304. IEEE
(2015)

Shen, S., Mulgaonkar, Y., Michael, N., Kumar, V.: Vision-
based state estimation for autonomous rotorcraft mavs
in complex environments. In: 2013 IEEE International
Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pp.
1758-1764. IEEE (2013)

Troiani, C., Martinelli, A., Laugier, C., Scaramuzza,
D.: Low computational-complexity algorithms for vision-
aided inertial navigation of micro aerial vehicles. Robot.
Autonom. Syst. 69, 80-97 (2015)

Loianno, G., Watterson, M., Kumar, V.: Visual inertial
odometry for quadrotors on se (3). In: 2016 IEEE Interna-
tional Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA),
pp. 1544-1551. IEEE (2016)

Loianno, G., Thomas, J., Kumar, V.: Cooperative local-
ization and mapping of mavs using rgb-d sensors. In:
2015 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and
Automation (ICRA), pp. 4021-4028. TEEE (2015)
Piasco, N., Marzat, J., Sanfourche, M.: Collaborative
localization and formation flying using distributed stereo-
vision. In: [EEE International Conference on Robotics and
Automation. Stockholm (2016)

Nieuwenhuisen, M., Droeschel, D., Beul, M., Behnke,
S.: Obstacle detection and navigation planning for
autonomous micro aerial vehicles. In: International Con-
ference on Unmanned Aircraft Systems (ICUAS), pp.
1040-1047. IEEE (2014)

Schmid, K., Tomic, T., Ruess, F., Hirschmuller, H., Suppa,
M.: Stereo vision based indoor/outdoor navigation for
flying robots. In: [IEEE/RSJ International Conference on
Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), pp. 3955-3962.
TEEE (2013)

Heng, L., Meier, L., Tanskanen, P., Fraundorfer, F,
Pollefeys, M.: Autonomous obstacle avoidance and
maneuvering on a vision-guided mav using on-board pro-
cessing. In: [EEE international conference on Robotics
and automation (ICRA), pp. 2472-2477. [EEE (2011)
Magree, D., Mooney, J.G., Johnson, E.N.: Monocular
visual mapping for obstacle avoidance on uavs. J. Intell.
Robot. Syst. 741-2), 17-26 (2014)

Xiaoyi, D., Qinhua, Z.: Research on laser-assisted odom-
etry of indoor uav with monocular vision. In: 3rd

% Springer

96.

97.

98.

99.

100.

101.

102.

103.

104.

105.

106.

107.

108.

109.

110.

Annual International Conference on Cyber Technology in
Automation, Control and Intelligent Systems (CYBER),
pp. 165-169. TEEE (2013)

Gosiewski, Z., Ciesluk, J., Ambroziak, L.: Vision-based
obstacle avoidance for unmanned aerial vehicles. In: 4th
International Congress on Image and Signal Processing
(CISP), vol. 4, pp. 2020-2025. IEEE (2011)

Yuan, C., Recktenwald, F., Mallot, H.A.: Visual steering of
uav in unknown environments. In: IEEE/RSJ International
Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems ([ROS), pp.
3906-3911. TEEE (2009)

Shah, S.LA., Johnson, E.N.: 3d obstacle detection using a
single camera. In: ALAA guidance, navigation, and control
conference (AIAA), vol. 5678 (2009)

Lee, J.0., Lee, K.H., Park, S.H., Im, S.G., Park, J.: Obsta-
cle avoidance for small uavs using monocular vision.
Aircraft Eng. Aeros. Technol. 83(6), 397-406 (2011)
Watanabe, Y., Fabiani, P., Le Besnerais, G.: Towards a uav
visual air-to-ground target tracking in an urban environment
Watanabe, Y., Lesire, C., Piquereau, A., Fabiani, P.,
Sanfourche, M., Le Besnerais, G.: The onera ressac
unmanned autonomous helicopter: Visual air-to-ground tar-
get tracking in an urban environment. In: American Heli-
copter Society 66th Annual Forum (AHS 2010) (2010)
Jian, L., Xiao-min, L.: Vision-based navigation and obsta-
cle detection for uav. In: International Conference on
Electronics, Communications and Control (ICECC), pp.
1771-1774. TEEE (2011)

Byrne, J., Cosgrove, M., Mehra, R.: Stereo based obstacle
detection for an unmanned air vehicle. In: IEEE Interna-
tional Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA),
pp. 2830-2835. IEEE (2006)

Yadav, V., Wang, X., Balakrishnan, S.: Neural network
approach for obstacle avoidance in 3-d environments for
uavs. In: American Control Conference, pp. 6-pp. IEEE
(2006)

Srinivasan, M.V., Thurrowgood, S., Soccol, D.: An opti-
cal system for guidance of terrain following in uavs.
In: International Conference on Video and Signal Based
Surveillance (AVSS), pp. 51-51. IEEE (2006)

Hrabar, S., Sukhatme, G., Corke, P., Usher, K., Roberts,
J.: Combined optic-flow and stereo-based navigation of
urban canyons for a uav. In: IEEE/RSJ International Con-
ference on Intelligent Robots and Systems ([ROS), pp.
3309-3316. IEEE (2005)

Olivares-Mendez, M.A., Mejias, L., Campoy, P., Mellado-
Bataller, I.: Quadcopter see and avoid using a fuzzy con-
troller. In: Proceedings of the 10th International FLINS
Conference on Uncertainty Modeling in Knowledge Engi-
neering and Decision Making (FLINS 2012). World Sci-
entific (2012)

Mohammed, A.D., Morris, T.: An improved camshift
algorithm for object detection and extraction

Ahrens, S., Levine, D., Andrews, G., How, J.P.: Vision-
based guidance and control of a hovering vehicle in
unknown, gps-denied environments. In: International
Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pp.
2643-2648. TEEE (2009)

Shi, J., Tomasi, C.: Good features to track. In: Com-
puter Society Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition (CVPR), pp. 593-600. [EEE (1994)
J Intell Robot Syst (2017) 87:141-168

167

 

111.

112.

113.

114.

115.

116.

117.

118.

119.

120.

121.

122.

123.

124.

125.

Lucas, B.D., Kanade, T., et al.: An iterative image regis-
tration technique with an application to stereo vision. In:
IJCAL, vol. 81, pp. 674-679 (1981)

Mcfadyen, A., Mejias, L., Corke, P., Pradalier, C.: Aircraft
collision avoidance using spherical visual predictive con-
trol and single point features. In: IEEE/RSJ International
Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems ([ROS), pp.
50-56. IEEE (2013)

Kim, Y., Jung, W., Bang, H.: Visual target tracking and
relative navigation for unmanned aerial vehicles in a gps-
denied environment. Int. J. Aeronaut. Space Sci. 15(3),
258-266 (2014)

Price, A., Pyke, J., Ashiri, D., Cornall, T.: Real time
object detection for an unmanned aerial vehicle using an fpga
based vision system. In: International Conference on Robotics
and Automation (ICRA), pp. 2854-2859. TEEE (2006)
Jeon, B., Baek, K., Kim, C., Bang, H.: Mode changing
tracker for ground target tracking on aerial images from
unmanned aerial vehicles (iccas 2013). In: 13th Interna-
tional Conference on Control, Automation and Systems
(ICCAS), pp. 1849-1853. IEEE (2013)

Rodriguez, J., Castiblanco, C., Mondragon, I., Colorado,
J.: Low-cost quadrotor applied for visual detection of
landmine-like objects. In: International Conference on
Unmanned Aircraft Systems (ICUAS), pp. 83-88. IEEE
(2014)

Gu, A., Xu, J.: Vision based ground marker fast detec-
tion for small robotic uav. In: 5th IEEE International
Conference on Software Engineering and Service Science
(ICSESS), pp. 975-978. TEEE (2014)

Zou, J.T., Tseng, ¥.C.: Visual track system applied
in quadrotor aerial robot. In: 2012 Third International
Conference on Digital Manufacturing and Automation
(CDMA), pp. 1025-1028. IEEE (2012)

Teuliere, C., Eck, L., Marchand, E.: Chasing a moving
target from a flying uav. In: IEEE/RSJ International Con-
ference on Intelligent Robots and Systems ([ROS), pp.
4929-4934. TEEE (2011)

Zhou, J.: Ekf based object detect and tracking for uav by
using visual-attention-model. In: International Conference
on Progress in Informatics and Computing (PIC), pp. 168—
172. TEEE (2014)

Watanabe, Y., Fabiani, P, Le Besnerais, G.: Simultane-
ous visual target tracking and navigation in a gps-denied
environment. In: International Conference on Advanced.
Robotics (ICAR), pp. 1-6. IEEE (2009)

Saif, A.S., Prabuwono, A.S., Mahayuddin, Z.R.: Real time
vision based object detection from uav aerial images: A
conceptual framework. In: Intelligent Robotics Systems:
Inspiring the NEXT, pp. 265-274. Springer (2013)
Gaszczak, A., Breckon, T.P., Han, J.: Real-time people
and vehicle detection from uav imagery. In: IS&T/SPIE
Electronic Imaging, pp. 78,780B—78,780B. International
Society for Optics and Photonics (2011)

Li, Z., Ding, J.: Ground moving target tracking control
system design for uav surveillance. In: IEEE International
Conference on Automation and Logistics, pp. 1458-1463.
TEEE (2007)

Maier, J., Humenberger, M.: Movement detection based
on dense optical flow for unmanned aerial vehicles. Int. J.
Adv. Robot. Syst. 10, 1-11 (2013)

126.

127.

128.

129.

130.

131.

132.

133.

134.

135.

136.

137.

138.

139,

140.

141.

Tarhan, M., Altug, E.: A catadioptric and pan-tilt-zoom
camera pair object tracking system for uavs. J. Intell.
Robot. Syst. 61(1-4), 119-134 (2011)

Majidi, B., Bab-Hadiashar, A.: Aerial tracking of elon-
gated objects in rural environments. Mach. Vis. Appl.
20(1), 23-34 (2009)

Liu, X., Lin, Z., Acton, S.T.: A grid-based bayesian
approach to robust visual tracking. Digit. Signal Process.
22(1), 54-65 (2012)

Candamo, J., Kasturi, R., Goldgof, D.: Using color pro-
files for street detection in low-altitude uav video. In: SPIE
Defense, Security, and Sensing, pp. 73,0700—73,0700.
International Society for Optics and Photonics (2009)
Pestana, J., Sanchez-Lopez, J.L., Saripalli, $., Campoy,
P.: Computer vision based general object following for
gps-denied multirotor unmanned vehicles. In: Ameri-
can Control Conference (ACC), pp. 1886-1891. [EEE
(2014)

Qadir, A., Semke, W., Neubert, J.: Vision based neuro-
fuzzy controller for a two axes gimbal system with small
uav. J. Intell. Robot. Syst. 74(3—4), 1029-1047 (2014)
Mondragon, LF., Campoy, P., Correa, J.E, Mejias, L.:
Visual model feature tracking for uav control. In: IEEE
International Symposium on Intelligent Signal Processing
(WISP), pp. 1-6. IEEE (2007)

Zhao, S., Hu, Z., Yin, M., Ang, K.Z., Liu, P, Wang, F.,
Dong, X., Lin, F, Chen, B.M., Lee, T.H.: A robust real-
time vision system for autonomous cargo transfer by an
unmanned helicopter. IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron. 62(2)
(2015)

Cichella, V., Kaminer, I., Dobrokhodov, V., Hovakimyan,
N.: Coordinated vision-based tracking for multiple uavs.
In: IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent
Robots and Systems (IROS), 2015, pp. 656-661. IEEE
(2015)

Lin, S., Garratt, M.A., Lambert, A.J.: Monocular vision-
based real-time target recognition and tracking for
autonomously landing an uav in a cluttered shipboard
environment. Autonom Robots, 1-21 (2016)

Fu, C., Duan, R., Kircali, D., Kayacan, E.: Onboard robust
visual tracking for uavs using a reliable global-local object
model. Sensors 16(9), 1406 (2016)

Tomic, T., Schmid, K., Lutz, P, Domel, A., Kassecker,
M., Mair, E., Grixa, LL., Ruess, F., Suppa, M., Burschka,
D.: Toward a fully autonomous uav: Research platform for
indoor and outdoor urban search and rescue. IEEE Robot.
Autom. Mag. 19(3), 46-56 (2012)

Wang, T., Wang, C., Liang, J., Chen, Y., Zhang, Y.:
Vision-aided inertial navigation for small unmanned aerial
vehicles in gps-denied environments. Int. J. Adv. Robot.
Syst. (2013)

Zhao, S., Lin, F, Peng, K., Chen, B.M., Lee, T.H.:
Homography-based vision-aided inertial navigation of
uavs in unknown environments. In: ALAA Guidance, Nav-
igation, and Control Conference (2012)

Cocchioni, F, Mancini, A., Longhi, S.: Autonomous nav-
igation, landing and recharge of a quadrotor using arti-
ficial vision. In: International Conference on Unmanned
Aircraft Systems (ICUAS), pp. 418-429. IEEE (2014)
Carrillo, L.R.G., Flores Colunga, G., Sanahuja, G.,
Lozano, R.: Quad rotorcraft switching control: An

® Springer
168

J Intell Robot Syst (2017) 87:141-168

 

142.

143.

144.

145.

146.

147.

148.

149.

150.

151.

152.

application for the task of path following. [EEE Trans.
Control Syst. Technol. 22(4), 1255-1267 (2014)

Lee, D., Kim, Y., Bang, H.: Vision-aided terrain ref-
erenced navigation for unmanned aerial vehicles using
ground features. Proc. Inst. Mech. Eng. Part G: J. Aeros.
Eng. 228(13), 2399-2413 (2014)

Yol, A., Delabarre, B., Dame, A., Dartois, J.E., Marchand,
E.: Vision-based absolute localization for unmanned aerial
vehicles. In: IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intel-
ligent Robots and Systems ([ROS), pp. 3429-3434. IEEE
(2014)

Tardif, J.P., George, M., Laverne, M., Kelly, A., Stentz, A.:
Vision-aided inertial navigation for power line inspection.
In: 1st International Conference on Applied Robotics for
the Power Industry (CARPD, pp. 1-6 (2010)

Sanahuja, G., Castillo, P.: Embedded laser vision system
for indoor aerial autonomous navigation. J. Int. Robot.
Syst. 69(1-4), 447-457 (2013)

Tippetts, B.J., Lee, D.J., Fowers, S.G., Archibald, J.K.:
Real-time vision sensor for an autonomous hovering
micro unmanned aerial vehicle. J. Aeros. Comput. Inf.
Commun. 6(10), 570-584 (2009)

Bosnak, M., Matko, D., Blazic, S.: Quadrocopter hov-
ering using position-estimation information from inertial
sensors and a high-delay video system. J. Intell. Robot.
Syst. 67(1), 43-60 (2012)

Frew, E.W., Langelaan, J., Stachura, M.: Adaptive plan-
ning horizon based on information velocity for vision-
based navigation. In: AIAA Guidance, Navigation and
Controls Conference (2007)

Bircher, A., Kamel, M., Alexis, K., Oleynikova, H.,
Siegwart, R.: Receding horizon next-best-view??? planner
for 3d exploration. In: 2016 IEEE International Confer-
ence on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pp. 1462-
1468. IEEE (2016)

Nuske, S., Choudhury, S., Jain, S., Chambers, A., Yoder,
L., Scherer, S., Chamberlain, L., Cover, H., Singh, S.:
Autonomous exploration and motion planning for an
unmanned aerial vehicle navigating rivers. J. Field Robot.
32(8), 1141-1162 (2015)

Avellar, G.S., Pereira, G.A., Pimenta, L.C., Iscold, P.:
Multi-uav routing for area coverage and remote sensing with
minimum time. Sensors 15(11), 27,783—27,803 (2015)
Burri, M., Oleynikova, H., Achtelik, M.W., Siegwart,
R.: Real-time visual-inertial mapping, re-localization and

% Springer

planning onboard mavs in unknown environments. In:
IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots
and Systems (ROS), 2015, pp. 1872-1878. IEEE (2015)

Christoforos Kanellakis is currently pursuing his Ph.D degree
within the Control Engineering Group, Department of Com-
puter Science, Electrical and Space Engineering, Lulea Uni-
versity of Technology (LTU), Lulea, Sweden. He received his
Diploma from the Electrical & Computer Engineering Depart-
ment of the University of Patras (UPAT), Greece in 2015. He
currently works in the field of robotics, focusing on the com-
bination of control and vision to enable robots perceive and
interact with the environment.

George Nikolakopoulos is Professor on Robotics and Automa-
tion at the Department of Computer Science, Electrical and
Space Engineering at Luleé University of Technology, Lulea,
Sweden. His work is focusing in the area of Robotics, Con-
trol Applications, while he has a significantly large experience
in Creating and Managing European and National Research
Projects. In the past he has been working as project man-
ager and principal investigator in Several R&D&I projects
funded by the EU, ESA, Swedish and the Greek National
Ministry of Research. George is the coordinator of H2020-
ICT AEROWORKS project in the field of Aerial Collaborative
UAVs and H2020-SPIRE project DISIRE in the field of Inte-
grated Process Control. In 2013 he has established the bigger
outdoors motion capture system in Sweden and most probably
in Europe as part of the FROST Field Robotics Lab at Lulea
University of Technology. In 2014, he has been nominated
as LTU’s Wallenberg candidate, one out of three nominations
from the university and 16 in total engineering nominations in
Sweden. In year 2003, George has received the Information
Societies Technologies (IST) Prize Award for the best paper
that Promotes the scopes of the European IST (currently known
as ICT) sector. His publications in the field of UAVs have
received top recognition from the related scientific community,
while have been several times listed in the TOP 25 most popu-
lar publications in Control Engineering Practice from Elsevier.
In 2014 he has received the 2014 Premium Award for Best
Paper in IET Control Theory and Applications, Elsevier for the
research work in the area of UAVs, His published scientific
work includes more than 150 published International Journals
and Conferences in the fields of his interest.
